IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
MUMBAI BENCH “D”, MUMBAI  
 
BEFORE SHRI AMIT SHUKLA, JUDICIAL MEMBER AND  
SHRI S. RIFAUR RAHMAN, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
 
 
         Appellant by  : Shri Nimesh Yadav  
         Respondent by  : Shri Yogesh Thar,  
   Shri Chaitanya Joshi &  
   Shri Hardik Nirmal  
 
        Date of Hearing  : 21/06/2022  
        Date of Pronouncement   :  19/07/2022  
 
O R D E R  
 
PER AMIT SHUKLA, JM  : 
 
 The aforesaid appeal has been filed by the Revenue against 
the impugned order dated 12.06.2017 passed by the 
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) -9, Mumbai (in short „ld. 
CIT(A)‟) for the quantum of assessment passed under Section 
143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short „the Act‟) for the 
Assessment Year 2013 -14.   
    ITA NO. 5683/MUM/2017  : A.Y :  2013 -14 
   
Asst. Commissioner of Income 
Tax – 4(3)(1),  
Mumbai (Appellant)     Vs. M/s. Reliance Transport & 
Travels Pvt. Ltd.,  
6th floor, Nagin Mahal,  
82, Veer Nariman Road, 
Churchgate,  
Mumbai 400  020. 
PAN : AAACR2380M 
(Respondent)2 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
2. The Revenue has raised the following grounds in its appeal: - 
“1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the 
Ld. CIT(A) erred in directing the AO to delete the disallowance of 
Rs.26,49,31,101/ - being custom duty paid towards Yacht.  
2. On the facts & in the circumstance of the case and in law, the 
Ld.CIT(A) erred in directing AO to tax the profit on transfer of Capital 
Asset i.e. Helicopter of Rs.19,09,32,707/ - as Long Term Capital Gain 
as against Short Term Capital Gain as assessed by the AO.”  
3. Facts in brief qua the issue raised in ground no. 1 are that 
the assessee -company is engaged in the business of travel agent 
and chartering of yacht and helicopters, etc.  The Assessing 
Officer noticed that in the Profit & Loss account , assessee has 
debited expenses under the head „Custom paid‟ of 
Rs.32,12,90,245/ -, out of which , Customs duty was 
Rs.26,49,31,101/ -, and the remaining was in the nature of 
penalty which was ad ded back by the assessee. The assessee has 
taken the yacht named as „ Tian‟ on rent from M/s. Ammolite 
Holding Limited, Channel Island, Jersey. The Assessing Officer 
has referred to some  report and investigation carried out by the 
Customs authorities wherei n it was reported that the yacht was 
purchased for €1,16,40,875 by M/s. Ammolite Holding Limited 
having its registered office at Temiplar House, Don Road, St. 
Heller, Jersey JE1, 2TR, Channel Island, which was a foreign 
based company of the Reliance ADAG G roup, from M/s. Ferretti 
SPA, Italy in August, 2008. The same was registered at Jersey 
with British Registry and named the Yacht as „TIAN' with 
registration No. 741256 , in September, 2008. As per the report, 
the Yacht was purchased in the name of M/s. Ammo lite Holding 
Limited with an intention to claim the 'Foreign Flag Vessel' status3 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
in India. As per the report, t he finance for the purchase was 
made by M/s. Reliance Capital Limited, M/s.  Worldtel Holding 
Limited and M/s.  Gateway Net Trading Pvt. Ltd., Sing apore, a 
subsidiary of M/s. Reliance Communications Limited which has 
made direct payment for purchase of yacht. The yacht was 
dispatched to India vide Bill of Lading No.2 dated 30.09.2008. 
The investigations revealed that a letter dated 01.01.2009 was 
written under the signatures of Shri V.R. Mohan of M/s.  
Ammolite Holdings Limited issued M/s.Assar  Lines saying that 
the owners had entered into a Bare Boat Chartering Agreement 
with the assessee , M/s.  Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd. for 
a period of on e year .   
4. Further, in the report i t was also alleged that the yacht was 
used for the personal purposes of Shri Anil Ambani and his 
family. The yacht was brought to India without paying Customs 
Duty.  The Assessing Officer has also referred to certain 
statements recorded by the Customs authorities that how the 
yacht was purchased and used by Shri Anil Ambani and family 
for their personal use. The Customs Department had attached 
the yacht for non -payment  of Customs Duty and the yacht was 
valued at Rs.86,91,97,421/ -. In the petition filed before the 
Customs Settlement Commission, the Commission had finally 
levied Customs Duty of Rs.26,49,31,101/ - and further penalty of 
Rs.5,63,59,144/ - was imposed . 
 
5. In his order, the Assessing Officer has also referred to the 
report of the Joint Director of Income Tax (Intelligence & Criminal 
Investigation) Unit -1, Mumbai that since the yacht was4 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
purchased for personal use, therefore, the payment of Customs 
Duty canno t be allowed as business expenses in the hands of the 
assessee -company, i.e. M/s. Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. 
Ltd.  From this report, the Assessing Officer deduced that the 
yacht was purchased for personal use of Shri Anil Ambani and 
family and the c harter agreement entered into by the assessee -
company with M/s. Ammolite Holding Limited is nothing but a 
devise to avoid tax implication, especially Customs Duty by 
making it „foreign flag vessel‟.  He further held that the Customs 
Duty is applicable only  if it is paid on revenue items, i.e. stock -in-
trade which is imported or import of capital asset.  In the case of 
assessee -company, it is neither stock -in-trade nor capital asset;  
therefore, the Customs Duty is not applicable on the yacht in the 
hands of the assessee -company. Insofar as the assessee‟s 
contention that Customs and Excise Settlement Commission has 
levied Customs Duty on the assessee and, therefore, the 
expenses should be allowed, the same he held that it is not 
tenable because the Settlement Commission has not adjudicated , 
whether it is applicable on the assessee or M/s. Ammolite 
Holding Limited or M/s. Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd. or 
the persons who have used the yacht.   
 
6. The Assessing Officer further held that the expenses 
claimed by the assessee -company cannot be allowed as expenses 
under Section 37(1) of the Act because it does not satisfy the 
following conditions : - 
 
(i) It is not incurred during the previous year. The yacht was 
brought in India in AY 2009 -10 for which the expens es belongs5 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
to whereas the expenses were claimed in the A.Y.2013 -14. The 
assessee may argue it is customs duty and can be claimed on 
payment basis u/s.43B of the Act. However, it is to be noted 
that the assessee has not shown any expenses payable as 
customs  duty in the A.Y.2009 -10. 
 
(ii) It is not covered under section 30 to 36 of the Act.  
 
(iii) These expenses are not a revenue expense in nature. If it is an 
expense at all, it is enduring and having impact beyond the 
year under consideration. It is not recurring.  
 
(iv) The expense is purely personal in nature. As per the findings of 
the Customs Authorities and the report of the JDIT (I &CI), 
Mumbai of the Income -tax Department (as discussed above), 
the yacht was brought to India for personal purposes.  
 
(v) 'Wholly and exclusiv ely' for the purpose of business. This 
expense is not incurred 'wholly and exclusively' for the purpose 
of business. The Charter Agreement entered with M/s 
Ammalite Holding Limited itself contradicts the business 
purpose. The assessee company carrying out its business in 
India chartering a yacht with 'foreign flag' which can stay at 
Indian Shores for a limited and permissible duration and which 
cannot be used as an Indian Yacht cannot be used as an 
Indian Yacht for any purpose, how can be used for business in 
India. An assessee who is neither an importer nor exporter nor 
does it venture in the coastal trades or offshore operation, if 
enters in a time charter agreement with a sister concern for a 
foreign flag vessel, then what business purpose is served, is 
beyond rationality. When the charter agreement of yacht does 
not satisfy the condition of wholly and exclusively for the 
business purpose, how can customs duty based on that charter 
agreement be wholly and exclusively for the business purpose. 
In addition t o that, the use of yatch for personal purposes6 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
excludes the criterion of 'wholly and exclusively for business 
purpose'.  
 
(vi) The SCN alleged in para 49(xxix) while considering the 
application of Shri Anil D. Ambani that the applicant 
purchased the Yacht for pe rsonal use with the assistance of 
Shri Hari Nair, Vice President of M/s. Reliance ADAG, routed 
the money for the purchase and effected the import of the 
Yacht with the help of Shri Gautama Dutta and Sh. Sohel 
Kazani in order to evade applicable customs dut y. In respect of 
the same, the applicant has submitted that purchasing the 
Yacht, routing the money for purchasing the Yacht does not 
amount to any action or omission, attracting liability to 
confiscation of the Yacht under section 111(m) or (n) and 
furthe r Bill of Entry in the Customs and therefore, Section 
111(m) is not applicable as the Yacht was declared properly.  
From the above, it is seen that the SCN has alleged that the 
Yacht was purchased for personal purposes only. However, the 
allegation raised by the SCN was neither answered nor 
rejected. From the above, it is crystal clear that the Yacht was 
purchased for personal purposes only.  
 
7. The Assessing Officer also rejected the assessee‟s contention 
that payment of Customs Duty was commercial expedie ncy for 
the reason that chartering of foreign flag yacht was not for the 
purpose of business and chartering of such a yacht was not going 
to serve any business purpose. If there was no commercial or 
business purpose in chartering of such yacht, how can pay ment 
of Customs Duty on it be treated as business exigency ?  Thus, he 
disallowed the Customs Duty claimed by the assessee of 
Rs.26,49,31,101/ - and added it back to the income of assessee.7 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
8. Before the ld. CIT(A), detailed submissions were made which 
has been dealt with and incorporated in the appellate order on 
pages 5 to 19.  The ld. CIT  (A) after noting down the facts noted 
that the assessee had submitted that the yacht was used for 
business purpose insofar as the assessee is concerned and it was 
under bona fide  belief that the yacht was having foreign flag 
which was decided to be used in various countries including 
Europe and India, therefore, Customs Duty is not leviable.  Only 
due to circumstances beyond the control and that the yacht was 
seized a s it remained in India, that the assessee agreed to pay the 
Customs Duty and settle the case so as to use the yacht in India.  
The Settlement Commission after considering the application had 
levied Customs Duty on the assessee itself. The order of 
Settlement Commission was delivered in Assessment Year 2012 -
13, therefore, same had been claimed in the year under appeal, 
i.e. Assessment Year 2013 -14.  Insofar as the Assessing Officer‟s 
allegation that the yacht was used for personal purposes, he held 
that the Assessing Officer himself has not verified  the fact 
whether the said yacht is actually used by the assessee for its 
personal use  or not .  The principal activity of the assessee is to  
carry on the business of travel and tourist agent and hiring, 
acquiring and chartering of aircrafts, helicopters, e tc. In the 
course of its business, the assessee has hired the Yacht from 
Ammolite for use of its business and actually used the same to 
provide services to Reliance ADA Group Pvt. Ltd. vide agreement 
dated 8.10.2008. As per the agreement, the Yacht was use d to 
provide services to Reliance ADA Group Pvt. Ltd. and the 
assessee has done the same and provided the services to Reliance8 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
ADA Group Pvt. Ltd. The assessee has produced year -wise ledger 
accounts of income earned from operation of yacht from 
1.12.2008 t o 31.3.2013 along  with summary chart of income 
earned from yacht operation up  to 31.3.2013. Further, a 
reference was also made to the Profit & loss account of the 
current year with respect to income earned from yacht operations 
during the year.  Thus, he he ld that the yacht was used for the 
purpose of assessee‟s business through providing services to 
Reliance ADA Group Pvt. Ltd.  
 
9. The ld. CIT  (A) after considering the entire gamut of facts 
and the submissions of the assessee as well as the finding of the 
Assessing Officer held that the yacht was not used by the 
assessee for its own personal use. It has operated the yacht for 
the benefit and use of companies or entities of Reliance ADA 
Group for consideration by way of operating fee as per the 
agreement. The  assessee -company has earned revenue from 
operating of yacht of Rs.53,16,319/ - and for the period 
01.12.2008 to 31.03.2013 it has earned revenue of 
Rs.1,58,45,786/ -.  The assessee has only acquired the chartering 
rights of the yacht and income has always b een assessed as 
business income in all the years by the Assessing Officer.  Insofar 
as the Assessing Officer‟s allegation that Customs Duty is not 
applicable in the case of assessee, he held that as per the order of 
Settlement Commission, the assessee alon e was liable for 
payment of Customs Duty on yacht for using same in the 
territory of India and accordingly, assessee had paid the Customs 
Duty.  Further, the assessee has taken the yacht on lease from9 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
M/s. Ammolite Holding Limited and, therefore, it has no t been 
capitalised or treated as stock -in-trade. For coming to this 
conclusion, he has referred to the decision of Hon'ble Bombay 
High Court in the case of National Organic Chemicals Industries 
Ltd. Vs. CIT, 203 ITR 410  (Bom.) .  Again, insofar as the Asses sing 
Officer‟s observation that the said expenses ha ve not been 
incurred during the previous year because the yacht was brought 
in India in Assessment Year 2009 -10 and, therefore, the 
expenses cannot be claimed in Assessment Year 2013 -14, he 
held that sinc e the assessee has paid the Customs Duty in the 
month of January, 2009 of Rs.25 crores and further payment of 
Rs.3 crores was made under protest in December, 2009  to 
provisionally vacate seizure of yacht by the Customs authorities 
and it is only when the S ettlement Commission vide order dated 
31.05.2012 had adjudicated the issue and settled the matter of 
payment on payment of determined Customs Duty upon the 
assessee, therefore, the liability had crystallized in Assessment 
Year 2013 -14 and, therefore, it ha s rightly been claimed as 
deduction in this year.  Final conclusion of the ld. CIT(A) reads as 
under : - 
 
“I have gone through the contentions of the appellant and AO 
fully. The contentions of the AO are not found correct and in law. As 
discussed in the above paras, the said expenditure is not incurred for 
its personal purpose by the appellant. Further, the ap pellant has 
incurred the said expenses for its business purpose. Since the liability 
in respect of the custom duty is crystallized during the year as the 
order of the Settlement Commission was passed in the current year 
and the finality of payment of custo m duty liability arises in the 
current year, it cannot be disallowed on the ground that the same is 
not related to the year under appeal. The said contention of the10 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
appellant also supported by the various High Courts and Tribunals 
decisions as discussed ab ove. Accordingly, the Ground Nos. A(1) to 
A(6) raised in appeal is thus ALLOWED.”  
 
10.   We have heard both the parties at length, perused the 
relevant finding given in the impugned order as well as the 
material referred to before us at the time of hearing . The ld. 
Departmental Representative has referred to various observations 
of the Assessing Officer and submitted that once it is found that 
Customs Duty was paid on yacht, which was purely used for the 
personal purposes of Shri Anil Ambani and family, it cannot be 
allowed as business expenses. On the other hand, the learned 
counsel for the assessee submitted that insofar as the assessee -
company is concerned, it had taken the yacht on rent from a 
foreign company, M/s. Ammolite Holding Limited and had used i t 
for earning income from operation of the yacht and showed it as 
business income, therefore, it cannot be held that the yacht was 
used for personal purposes of assessee -company.  Insofar as the 
liability to pay Customs Duty by the assessee -company is 
concerned, he submitted that once the Settlement Commission 
had fixed the liability of Customs Duty on the assessee for the 
yacht, then, it is purely a payment of duty which is allowable as 
business expenses of the assessee -company.  
 
11. It is an undisputed fa ct that the assessee -company is in the 
business of travel and tourist agent and also chartering of 
aircrafts, helicopters, yachts, etc. The revenue earned from 
operation of yacht/helicopters, etc. has been shown as business 
income and same has been accepte d by the Assessing Officer in11 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
all the years.  If in the course of its business, assessee has hired 
a yacht for the use of its business and to provide services to other 
entities and companies, then, so far as the assessee is concerned, 
it is purely a busine ss activity.  The ld. CIT(A) has already noted 
that the revenue earned from operation of yacht over the period 
of time, which has been accepted by the Assessing Officer.  Even 
if the company which is hiring the services or individuals who are 
using the yac ht for their personal purposes, then insofar as the 
assessee is concerned, it does not automatically become personal 
use by the assessee -company. If any adverse inference was to be 
drawn, then, it has to be examined and looked into in their 
hands or in t he context of the compan ies or persons hiring the 
yacht or paying charges for usage of the yacht. The yacht was 
never used for the personal use of the assessee -company, albeit 
by someone else, for which any claim of deduction of expenses 
cannot be disallowed  on the ground of personal use  in the hands 
of the assessee company . Therefore, the ld. CIT  (A) has rightly 
concluded that the yacht was not used by the assessee for its 
own personal use as it has operated the yacht for the benefit and 
use of companies or entities paying operating fee as per the 
agreement.  
 
12. Insofar as the controversy whether the liability to pay the 
Customs Duty was of assessee or not and in which year assessee 
could claim the expenses . As discussed above, the Customs and 
Excise Settlem ent Commission has categorically held that the 
liability to pay Customs Duty was on the assessee because the 
yacht was used in India and, therefore, the assessee alone should12 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
pay the Customs Duty.  Thus, the payment of Customs Duty by 
the assessee was a st atutory liability of the assessee company 
which has been dispensed with and accordingly, assessee has 
rightly claimed the payment of Customs Duty as expenses.   
 
13. Insofar as the year of claim of expenses is concerned, 
though the assessee had paid the Cu stoms Duty of Rs.28 crores 
in the year 2009, it was only to release the yacht attached with 
the Customs authorities and same was done under protest as it 
was contesting the levy of Customs Duty on the ground that 
since it is a „foreign flag vessel‟, there was no liability to pay the 
Customs Duty. Thus, when the Customs and Excise Settlement 
Commission had fixed the liability and determined the liability in 
the financial year 2012 -13 relevant to Assessment Year 2013 -14, 
the liability has definitely crystalli sed in this year only and, 
therefore, the same has rightly been claimed in this year.  
Accordingly, the order of the ld. CIT  (A) is confirmed and the 
grounds raised by the Revenue is dismissed.  
 
14. Insofar as the issue raised in ground no. 2 that the 
assessee-company had offered Long term capital gains  on sale of 
helicopter of Rs.19,09,32,707/ -.  The Assessing Officer noted that 
the helicopter was part of block of assets and was a depreciable 
asset  and why it should not be treated as Short term capital 
gains .  
 
 The working of capital gains  as per assessee was as under : -13 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
Particulars  Amount (Rs.)  
Net block of helicopter as on 01.04.2012  11,19,47,371  
Less :  Deduction during the year (excluding 
spare parts of Rs.65,10,284/ - and equipment of 
R.3,73,438/ -) 30,28,80,078  
Capital gains as per section 50(2) of the Act  19,09,32,707  
 
15. The helicopter was purchased on 31.10.2006 and the same 
was sold on 25.03.2013 and, therefore, the period of holding was 
more than 3 years.  Since the block became Nil, the provisions of 
Section 50(2) of the Act was attracted and the deeming provision 
of Section 50 of the Act are applicable with respect to 
computation of capital gains  and it does not convert the long 
term capital asset into short term capital asset. However, the 
Assessing Officer held that in the section 50 of the Act, it is 
clearly stated the manner of calculation of capital gains on sale of 
depreciable assets , which is applicable here as it was sale of 
asset on which depreciation was allowed . In the instant case, the 
helicopter is a depreciable asset and the assessee has claimed 
depreciation on the same , therefore, a s per the provisions of 
section 50 of the Act, incom e received or accruing as a result of 
such transfer or transfers shall be deemed to be the capital gains 
arising from the transfer of short -term capital assets. AO further 
held that a s per provisions of section 2(42B) of the Act wherein 
the short term capi tal gains has been defined, it is clearly 
mentioned that "short term capital gain means capital gain 
arising from the transfer of a short term capital asset". From the 
above, it is clear that all the depreciable assets are in the nature 
of short term capit al assets as per provisions of section 50 of the14 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
Act and any capital gains arising out of such transfer is short 
term capital gain as per provisions of section 2(42B) of the Act. 
AO further observed that, i f the provisions of section 50 of the Act 
is read  with the provisions of section 2(42B) of the Act, it is amply 
clear the capital gains arising out of sale of depreciable assets are 
short term capital gains only. In the section 50 of the Act which 
is incorporated for calculation of depreciable assets, it was 
nowhere mentioned that the capital gains will be calculated as 
per the holding period of the asset.  He further held that for the 
purpose of computation of capital gains  on such depreciable 
asset, the asset become short term and therefore he held it to be 
Short term capital gains  and levied tax at the rate applicable for 
Short term capital gains .  
 
16.     The ld. CIT(A) after referring to the judgment of the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court in the case of V.S. Dempo Co. Ltd. [2016] 74 
Taxmann.com 15 (SC)  and Hon'b le Bombay High Court in the 
case of Ace Builders (P.) Ltd. [2005] 144 Taxmann 855 (Bom.)  held 
that though for the purpose of computation of capital gains  it will 
be treated as Short term capital gains  under Section 50 of the 
Act, but for the purpose of app licability of tax rate, it has to be 
treated as Long term capital gains , if asset is held for more than 
3 years.  
 
17.    After considering the Revenue‟s submission and on perusal 
of the impugned order, we find that, the only controversy is 
whether sale of  a depreciable asset (i.e. helicopter) , which was 
part of block of assets and held for more than 3 years , is taxable15 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
under Section 50 of the Act as Short term capital gains , then  
whether the rate of tax would be of Long term capital gains  
treating it to be  a long term capital asset  or rate of short term 
capital gain . The Assessing Officer has treated the capital gain on 
sale of helicopter amounting to Rs.19,09,32,707/ - as Short term 
capital gains  and taxing the same at normal rate of tax as per the 
provisio ns of Section 111A(1) of the Act @ 30% ; whereas the ld. 
CIT(A) has held that for the purpose of rate of tax, same should 
be treated as Long term capital gains  and, therefore, as per the 
provisions of Section 112(1) of the Act, the rate of tax should be 
20%.   
 
18.    It is an undisputed fact that the holding period of the said 
asset was more than 3 years (i.e. 5 ½ years) and, therefore, same 
is a long term capital asset as per the provisions of Section 
2(29A A) of the Act.  Since the asset was a depreciable asset used 
for the purpose of business, assessee claimed depreciation from 
the date of its acquisition , i.e., from  31.10.2006.  During the 
current year, the helicopter was sold for Rs.30,28,80,078/ - which 
amount was higher than the net block of asset  as on  01.04.2012.  
The resulting capital gain as per Section 50(2) of the Act was Rs. 
19,09,32,707/ - which assessee has offered for capital gains  at 
the tax rate of 2 0%.  As per Section 112 of the Act, the income 
arising from transfer of a long term capital ass et is chargeable 
under the head „ Capital gains ‟ @ 20%.  Long term capital gains  
on capital asset has been defined under Section 2(29A A) of the 
Act to mean capital asset which is not a short term capital asset.  
As per Section 2(42A) of the Act, short term capital asset means16 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
capital asset held by the assessee for not more than 36 months 
immediately preceding the date of transfer.  Section 50 is a special 
provision for computing the capital gains  in case of a depreciable 
asset and is not only restricted to pr ovisions of Section 48 and 49 
of the Act. It is a deeming fiction carved out for treatment of 
depreciable asset which has limited application for the pur pose of 
mode of computation of capital gains  contained in Section 48 and 
49 of the Act . Ergo,  it deals with capital asset which forms part of 
block of assets in which depreciation has been allowed under this 
Act and, therefore, the mode of computation of profit under 
Section 48 and 49 of the Act are applied with certain 
modifications.  In other wo rds, the fiction created in Section 50 of 
the Act is only restricted to the mode of computation under 
Section 48 and 49 of the Act which cannot be extended beyond 
that.  
 
19.   This issue had come up for consideration before the Hon'ble 
Bombay High Court ( jurisdictional High Court)  in the case of CIT 
vs Ace Builders, 281 ITR 210 (Bom.)  wherein the Hon'ble High 
Court in the context of claim of deduction under Section 54E of 
the Act in respect of capital gain arising on transfer of a capital 
asset on which de preciation has been allowed, which is deemed 
to be Short term capital gains  under Section 50 of the Act, had 
made the following observation: - 
 
“21. On perusal of the aforesaid provisions, it is seen that Section 
45 is a charging section and sections 48 and  49 are the 
machinery sections for computation of capital gains. However, 
Section 50 carves out an exception in respect of depreciable 
assets and provides that where depreciation has been claimed17 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
and allowed on the asset, then, the computation of capital g ain 
on transfer of such asset under sections 48 and 49 shall be as 
modified under Section 50. In other words, Section 50 provides a 
different method for computation of capital gain in the case of 
capital assets on which depreciation has been allowed.  
 
22. Under the machinery sections the capital gains are 
computed by deducting from the consideration received on 
transfer of a capital asset, the cost of acquisition, the cost of 
improvement and the expenditure incurred in connection with the 
transfer. The mean ing of the expressions „cost of improvement‟ 
and „cost of acquisition‟ used in sections 48 and 49 are given in 
section 55. As the depreciable capital assets have also availed 
depreciation allowance under section 32, section 50 provides for 
a special proced ure for computation of capital gains in the case of 
depreciable assets. Section 50(1) deals with the cases where any 
block of depreciable assets do not cease to exist on account of 
transfer and Section 50(2) deals with cases where the block of 
depreciable assets cease to exist in that block on account of 
transfer during the previous year. In the present case, on transfer 
of depreciable capital asset the entire block of assets has ceased 
to exist and, therefore, Section 50(2) is attracted. The effect of 
Section 50(2) is that where the consideration received on transfer 
of all the depreciable assets in the block exceeds the written 
down value of the block, then the excess is taxable as a deemed 
short term capital gains. In other words, even though the entire 
block of assets transferred are long term capital assets and the 
consideration received on such transfer exceeds the written down 
value, the said excess is liable to be treated as capital gain 
arising out of a short term capital asset and taxed accordingly.  
 
23. The question required to be considered in the present case 
is, whether the deeming fiction created under Section 50 is 
restricted to section 50 only or is it applicable to section 54E of 
the Income Tax Act as well ?  In other words, the question is, 
where the long term capital gain arises on transfer of a 
depreciable long term capital asset, whether the assessee can be 
denied exemption under section 54E merely because, section 5018 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
provides that the computation of such capital gains should be 
done as if  arising from the transfer of short term capital asset ?  
 
24. Section 54E of the Income Tax Act grants exemption from 
payment of capital gains tax, where the whole or part of the net 
consideration received from the transfer of a long term capital 
asset is invested or deposited in a specified asset within a period 
of six months after the date of such transfer. In the present case 
it is not in dispute that the assessee fulfills all the conditions set 
out in section 54E to avail exemption, but the exemption is  sought 
to be denied in view of fiction created under section 50.  
 
25. In our opinion, the assessee cannot be denied exemption 
under section 54E, because, firstly, there is nothing in section 50 
to suggest that the fiction created in Section 50 is not only  
restricted to sections 48 and 49 but also applies to other 
provisions. On the contrary, Section 50 makes it explicitly clear 
that the deemed fiction created in sub -section (1) & (2) of section 
50 is restricted only to the mode of computation of capital ga ins 
contained in Section 48 and 49. Secondly, it is well established 
in law that a fiction created by the legislature has to be confined 
to the purpose for which it is created. In this connection, we may 
refer to the decision of the Apex Court in the case of State Bank 
of India V/s. D. Hanumantha Rao reported in 1998 (6) S.C.C.183. 
In that case, the Service Rules framed by the bank provided for 
granting extention of service to those appointed prior to 
19/7/1969. The respondent therein who had joined the ban k on 
1/7/1972 claimed extention of service because he was deemed 
to be appointed in the bank with effect from 26/10/1965 for the 
purpose of seniority, pay and pension on account of his past 
service in the army as Short Service Commissioned Officer. In 
that context, the Apex Court has held that the legal fiction created 
for the limited purpose of seniority, pay and pension cannot be 
extended for other purposes. Applying the ratio of the said 
Judgment, we are of the opinion, that the fiction created under 
section 50 is confined to the computation of capital gains only 
and cannot be extended beyond that. Thirdly, section 54E does 
not make any distinction between depreciable asset and non 
depreciable asset and, therefore, the exemption available to the19 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
depreciab le asset under section 54E cannot be denied by 
referring to the fiction created under section 50. Section 54E 
specifically provides that where capital gain arising on transfer of 
a long term capital asset is invested or deposited (whole or any 
part of the net consideration) in the specified assets, the 
assessee shall not be charged to capital gains. Therefore, the 
exemption under section 54E of the I.T.Act cannot be denied to 
the assessee on account of the fiction created in section 50.  
 
26. It is true that  section 50 is enacted with the object of 
denying multiple benefits to the owners of depreciable assets. 
However, that restriction is limited to the computation of capital 
gains and not to the exemption provisions. In other words, where 
the long term capit al asset has availed depreciation, then the 
capital gain has to be computed in the manner prescribed under 
Section 50 and the capital gains tax will be charged as if such 
capital gain has arisen out of a short term capital asset but if 
such capital gain is  invested in the manner prescribed in Section 
54E, then the capital gain shall not be charged under Section 45 
of the Income Tax Act. To put it simply, the benefit of section 54E 
will be available to the assessee irrespective of the fact that the 
computati on of capital gains is done either under sections 48 & 
49 or under section 50. The contention of the revenue that by 
amendment to section 50 the long term capital asset has been 
converted into to short term capital asset is also without any 
merit. As state d hereinabove, the legal fiction created by the 
statute is to deem the capital gain as short term capital gain and 
not to deem the asset as short term capital asset. Therefore, it 
cannot be said that section 50 converts long term capital asset 
into a short  term capital asset.”  
 
20. Thus, sequitur of aforesaid judgment is that the fiction 
created by the legislature in Section 50 of the Act has to be 
confined to the purp ose for which it is created.  Section 50 of the 
Act was enacted with the object of denying multiple benefits to 
the owners of a depreciable asset, however, that restriction is 
limited to the computation of capital gains  and not to the20 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
exemption provision.  If depreciation  has been availed on long 
term capital asset, then, the capital gains  has to be computed in 
the manner prescribed under Section 50 of the Act and the 
capital gains  tax will be charged as if such capital gain is arising 
out of short term ca pital asset. In that case, the capital gains  was 
invested in the manner prescribed in Section 54E of the Act 
wherein exemption is provided on transfer of a long term capital 
asset then Long term capital gains  was subject to deduction .  
There also, the asse t was a depreciable asset, however, while 
granting exemption under Section 54E of the Act, which is 
applicable for Long term capital gains , the jurisdictional High 
Court has held that for the purpose of exemption under Section 
54E of the Act, it has to be treated as Long term capital gains .  
Later on, the same principle was reiterated by the Hon'ble 
Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs Parrys (Easter n) (P) 
Ltd., 384 ITR 264 (Bom.)  wherein the Hon'ble High Court has 
held that if deemed Short term capital gains  is arising on account 
of sale of a depreciable asset that was held for a period to which 
Long term capital gains  will apply, then, said gain would be set -
off against brought forward Long Term Capital Loss and 
unabsorbed depreciation. Further , in case  CIT vs Manali 
Investment s [2013] 219 Taxman 113 (Bom.)  again the same 
principle was reiterated by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court.  
Later on, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT V.S. 
Dempo  Co. Ltd. Civil Appeal No(s). 4797/2008  vide order  dated  
15.09.2016  had the occasion to examine the eligibility of assessee 
to claim exemption under Section 54E of the Act in respect of 
capital gains  arising on transfer of a capital asset on which21 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
depreciation has been allowed. The Hon'ble Apex Court reiterated  
and affirmed the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the 
case of Ace Builders (P.) Ltd. (supra) . In the said appeal before 
Supreme Court, in the income -tax return filed by the  
respondent/assessee for the A.Y. 1989 -90, the assessee had 
disclosed that it had sold its loading platform M.V. Priyadarshni 
for a sum of Rs. 1,37,25,000/ - on which it had earned some 
capital gains. On the said capital gains the assessee had also 
claimed that it was entitled for exemption under Section 54E of 
the Act. Admittedly , the asset was purchased in the year 1972 
and sold sometime in the year 1989. Thus, the asset was almost 
17 years old. Going by the definition of long term capital asset 
contained in Section 2(29B) of the Act, it was admittedly a long -
term capital asset. Further the Assessing Officer rejected the 
claim for exemption under Section 54E of the Act on the ground 
that the assessee had claimed depreciation on this asset and, 
therefore, provisions of Section 50 were applicable. Though this 
was upheld by the CIT ( Appeals), the ITAT allowed the appeal of 
the assessee herein holding that the assessee shall be entitled for 
exemption under Section 54E of the Act. The Bombay High Court 
confirmed the view of the CIT (Appeals) and dismissed the appeal 
of the Revenue. Whil e doing so the High Court relied upon its 
own judgment in the case of CIT, Mumbai City -II, Mumbai vs. 
ACE Builders Pvt. Ltd. [(2005) 3 Bom CR 598]. The High Court 
observed that Section 50 of the Act which is a special provision 
for computing the capital ga ins in the case of depreciable assets 
is not only restricted for the purposes of Section 48 or Section 49 
of the Act as specifically stated therein and the said fiction22 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
created in sub -section (1) & (2) of Section 50 of the Act has 
limited application only in the context of mode of computation of 
capital gains contained in Sections 48 and 49 of the Act and 
would have nothing to do with the exemption that is provided in 
a totally different provision i.e. Section 54E of the Act. Section 48 
of the Act deals wit h the mode of computation and Section 49 of 
the Act relates to cost with reference to certain mode of 
acquisition. This aspect is analysed in the judgment of the 
Bombay High Court in the case of CIT, Mumbai City -II, Mumbai 
vs. ACE Builders Pvt. Ltd.(supra) , in the following manner:  
 “In our opinion, the assessee cannot be denied 
exemption under Section 54E, because, firstly, there is 
nothing i n Section 50 to suggest that the fiction 
created in Section 50 is not only restricted to Sections 
48 and 49 but also applies to other provisions. On the 
contrary, Section 50 makes it explicitly clear that the 
deemed fiction created in sub -section (1) & (2)  of 
Section 50 is restricted only to the mode of 
computation of capital gains contained in Section 48 
and 49. Secondly, it is well established in law that a 
fiction created by the legislature has to be confined to 
the purpose for which it is created. In th is connection, 
we may refer to the decision of the Apex Court in the 
case of State Bank of India vs. D. Hanumantha Rao 
reported in 1998 (6) SCC 183. In that case, the Service 
Rules framed by the bank provided for granting 
extension of service to those appo inted prior to 
19.07.1969. The respondent therein who had joined the23 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
bank on 1.7.1972 claimed extension of service because 
he was deemed to be appointed in the bank with effect 
from 26.10.1965 for the purpose of seniority, pay and 
pension on account of his  past service in the army as 
Short Service Commissioned Officer. In that context, 
the Apex Court has held that the legal fiction created 
for the limited purpose of seniority, pay and pension 
cannot be extended for other purposes. Applying the 
ratio of the said judgment, we are of the opinion, that 
the fiction created under Section 50 is confined to the 
computation of capital gains only and cannot be 
extended beyond that. Thirdly, Section 54E does not 
make any distinction between depreciable asset and 
non-depreciable asset and, therefore, the exemption 
available to the depreciable asset under Section 54E 
cannot be denied by referring to the fiction created 
under Section 50. Section 54E specifically provides 
that where capital gain arising on transfer of a lon g 
term capital asset is invested or deposited (whole or 
any part of the net consideration) in the specified 
assets, the assessee shall not be charged to capital 
gains. Therefore, the exemption under Section 54E of 
the I.T. Act cannot be denied to the asses see on account 
of the fiction created in Section 50.”  
 
Their Lordships  dismissing the appeal filed by the Revenue held 
that we are in agreement with the aforesaid view taken by the 
Mumbai High Court. The Gujarat High Court as well as Guahati24 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
High Court hav e also taken the same view in the following cases, 
against these judgments no appeal has been filed:  
1. CIT vs. Polestar Industries [2013 SCC online Gu j 5517]  
2. CIT vs. Assam Petroleum Industries (P.) Ltd. [(2003) 262  ITR 
587].  
 
21.  The Special Bench of ITAT, Mumbai also in ITO vs United 
Marine Academy  [2011] 10 Taxmann.com 320 (Mum. -Trib)  
has explained the deeming fiction of section 50 as per which the 
said section only modifies the term "cost of acquisition" used in 
sections 48 for the purpose of computing the capital gains arising 
from transfer of depreciable assets.   
 
22.    Thus , the applicability of section 50 is for the limited 
purpose of working out the cost of acquisition u/s.48 and 49 of 
the depreciable asset sold and the app licability of section 50 is 
restricted for that purpose only and for the purpose of other 
provisions of the Act, the capital gain has to be treated as long 
term capital gain if the period of holding is more than 3 years.  
The ratio and the principle as cul led out from the aforesaid 
judgment s are that, the legal fiction created in Section 50 of the 
Act deems capital gains  as short term capital gains  but does not 
deem the asset as short term capital asset and, therefore, it 
cannot be said that Section 50 of t he Act converts long term 
capital asset into short term capital asset.  Thus, if we apply the 
same ratio and principle here then, a s per Section 112 of the Act, 
the tax on long term capital gains  on transfer of a long term 
capital asset is @ 20% and, theref ore, even if the capital gains  is25 ITA No. 5683/Mum/2017  
Reliance Transport & Travels Pvt. Ltd.  
 
deemed as short term capital gains  in terms of Section 50 of the 
Act, but for all other purposes including for the purpose of 
Section 112 , the deeming fiction cannot be extended for rate of 
taxes and, therefore, the rate of tax has to be as per Section 112 
of the Act, i.e. 20%. Accordingly, the order of ld. CIT  (A) is 
confirmed and ground no. 2 is dismissed.  
 
23. In the result, appeal of the Revenue is dismissed.  
 
 Order pronounced in the open court on 19th July, 2022.  
 
 
                          Sd/-                          Sd/- 
(S. RIFAUR RAHMAN ) 
ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                        (AMIT SHUKLA)  
                  JUDICIAL MEMBER  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mumbai, Date :  19.07.2022  
 
*SSL*  
 
 
 
 
 
Copy to :  
 
 
1) The Appellant  
2) The Respondent  
3) The CIT(A) concerned  
4) The CIT concerned  
5) The D.R, “D” Bench, Mumbai  
6) Guard file                    
           By Order  
 
 
Asstt. Registrar/Sr. Private Secretary  
                 I.T.A.T, Mumbai