IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
 DELHI BENCH, ‘D’: NEW DELHI 
 
BEFORE SHRI SHAMIM YAHYA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND 
SHRI ANUBHAV SHARMA, JUDICIAL MEMBER 
 
ITA No.8569/DEL/2019 
[Assessment Year: 2009-10] 
 
ACIT, 
Circle-17(1), 
Room No.185, C.R. Building, 
I.P. Estate,  
New Delhi-110002  
 
Vs M/s Mitsui & Co. India Pvt. Ltd. 
Plot No.D-1, 4 th  Floor,  
Salcon Ras Vilas,  
Distt. Centre, Saket,  
New Delhi-110017 
  PAN-AADCM4488J  
Revenue   Assessee 
 
Revenue  by Sh. Sanjay Kumar Bharati, CIT-DR 
Assessee by Sh. Ved Jain, Adv. &  
Supriya Mehta, CA 
  
Date of Hearing  23.02.2023  
Date of Pronouncement     02.03.2023  
ORDER  
PER SHAMIM YAHYA, AM,  
This appeal by the Revenue is directed against the order of the Ld. 
CIT(A)-37, New Delhi, dated 25.07.2019 and pertains  to Assessment Year 
2009-10. 
2. The grounds of appeal reads as under:- 
1. Whether on fact and in circumstances of the case  Ld. 
CIT(A) is legally justified in deleting the disallo wance of Rs. 
16,94,51,775/- on account of non-deduction of TDS, u/ s 40(a) (i) 
of the Income Tax Act 1961 (the Act) by ignoring fi nding of facts 
recorded by the Assessing Officer (the AO) that the  AO of Mitsui 
Japan attributed 50% of the gross profit i.e. Rs. 28,5 6,46,263/- 
(50% of Rs. 57,12,92,527 /-) as income attributable to In dia PE. 
2. Whether on facts and in circumstances of the cas e, the Ld. 
CIT(A) is legally justified in deleting the disallo wance of Rs. 
16,94,51,775/- on account of non-deduction of TDS, u/ s 40(a) (i) 
of the Income Tax Act 1961 (the Act) by ignoring fi ndings of the 
fact recorded by the AO that Mitsui Japan being a n on-resident, 
tax is payable by it in India on income attributabl e to India PE. 
Mitsui India should have deducted an amount of Rs.2  
    
11,42,58,505/- (40% of Rs. 28,56,46,263/-) as final tax  
payment of non-resident by way of TDS on its receip ts, out of 
the payments of Rs. 16,94,51,775/- it made to Mitsui Japan?  
3. Whether on facts and in circumstances of the cas e, the Ld. 
CIT(A) is legally justified in deleting the disallo wance of Rs. 
16,94,51,775/- on account of non-deduction of TDS, u/ s 40(a) (i) 
of the Act by ignoring the fact that Mitsui India i s a Dependent 
Agent PE of Mitsui Japan, the same was also held by the AO of 
Mitsui Japan in the his order dated 22.02.2012. This fact has 
also been confirmed by the CIT(A) in his order date d 29.05.2015 
wherein it is stated that "Respectfully following t he order of my 
predecessor CIT(A) for immediate preceding year 2008- 09, I hold 
that the action of the AO to the extent of holding Mits ui India Pvt. 
Ltd. as DAPE is upheld? 
3.  Brief facts of the case are that the assessee c ompany is a subsidiary 
company of its parent company in Japan namely Mitsu i & Co. Ltd. 
(Japan). During the year under consideration the pa rent company has 
made supplies worth Rs.37,33,93,80,834/ - to the In dian customers which 
included purchases by the appellant company of Rs. 16,94,51,775/-. The 
AO in the assessment order has observed that the as sessee company is a 
dependent agent PE of its parent company in Japan b ased on the 
assessment completed in the case of parent company vide order u/s.143(3) 
dated 22.02.2012 for the year under consideration i .e. AY. 2009-10. Based 
on the derivation that the assessee company is depe ndent PE agent of the 
parent company, the AO observed that profit element  in the purchases 
made by the appellant company from the parent compa ny is directly 
attributable to the PE and the profit element in th e purchases made by the 
other Indian customers is indirectly' attributable to the Indian PE of the 
Mitsui Japan i.e. assessee company. Accordingly, th e AO based on the 
observations of the AO of the Mitsui Japan that 50%  of its gross profit is 
attributable to the Indian operations, has drawn a conclusion that 50% of 
the gross profit of the Mitsui Japan i.e. Rs.28,56, 46,263/- is the income3  
    
attributable to Indian PE i.e. assessee company. Fu rther on said basis the 
AO concluded that the income of Mitsui Japan is att ributable to Indian PE 
(assessee company) and there are payment of Rs.16,9 4,51,775/-. 
4. Upon assessee’s appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) noted tha t the assessee has 
claimed that the disallowance made by the Assessing  Officer is based on 
the assessment completed in the case of Mitusi & Co . Ltd. Japan for the 
year under consideration i.e. AY 2009-10 wherein th e Assessing Officer of 
the said company has relied upon the finding of the  Assessing Officer of 
that company in the AY 2005-06, wherein it was obse rved that the 
assessee company i.e. Mitusi India is the dependent  agent PE of the Mitusi 
& Co. Ltd. Japan. It was further stated before the Ld. CIT(A) that the said 
issue has now been adjudicated in favour of Mitusi & Co. Ltd. Japan 
holding that Mitusi India (assessee company) is not  the dependent agent 
PE of Mitusi & Co. Ltd. Japan. The Ld. CIT(A) quote d the relevant finding  
of ITAT in the case of Mitusi & Co. Japan for Asses sment Year 2005-06 as 
under:- 
"4. The Second ground is regarding finding of the le arned CIT 
(Appeals) holding that no income is liable to be at tributed in India 
even if MIPL is considered to be Dependent Agent PE  in India. On 
this issue the learned CIT-DR though stated that th ough in view of 
the TPO order under Section 92CA (3) holding the tr ansactions 
between the assessee and the MIPL at arm's length, a ddition may 
not be sustainable, yet argued that MIPL be consider ed as 
Dependent Agent PE In India in terms of Article 5(7 ) of DTAA 
between India and Japan. It was contended by the lea rned CIT-DR 
on the basis of the allegation levied by the Assess ing Officer in the 
assessment order that MIPL habitually secures order  for the 
assessee in India and MIL is economically dependent  on the 
assessee as major revenue of MIPL is from the asses see company. 
Accordingly, it has to be examined whether MIPL can be considered 
to be a Dependent Agent of the assessee company. In this regard it 
may be relevant to refer to Article 5(7) of DTAA be tween India and 
Japan, which reads as under :-4  
    
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2)  where a 
person--other than an agent of an independent statu s to whom 
paragraph 8 applies--is acting in a Contracting Sta te on behalf of an 
enterprise of the other Contracting State; that ent erprise shall be 
deemed to have a permanent establishment in the fir st-mentioned 
Contracting State) if 
(a) he has and habitually exercises in that Contrac ting State an 
authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the en terprise} unless 
his activities are limited to those mentioned in pa ragraph 6 which; if 
exercised through a fixed place of business} would not make this 
fixed place of business a permanent establishment u nder the 
provisions of that paragraph; 
(b) he has no such authority, but habitually mainta ins in the first 
mentioned Contracting State a stock of goods or mer chandise from 
which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on  behalf of the 
enterprise; or 
(c) he habitually secures orders in the first-menti oned Contracting 
State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise it self or for the 
enterprise and other enterprises controlling, contro lled by, or subject 
to the same common control as that enterprise. 
8. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a perman ent 
establishment in a Contracting State merely because  it carries on 
business in that Contracting State through a broker , general 
commission agent or any other agent of an independe nt status, 
provided that such persons are acting in the ordina ry course of their 
business. 
9. The fact that a company which is resident of a Co ntracting State 
controls or is controlled by a company which is a r esident of the 
other Contracting State, or which carries on busines s in that other 
Contracting State whether through a permanent establ ishment or 
otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either co mpany a permanent 
establishment of the other. 
4.1 As per above clause (7) a person other than an i ndependent 
agent is treated as PE if he fulfills any of the thre e conditions, (a), (b) 
or (c). It is not the case of the Assessing Officer that MIL habitually 
exercised authority to conclude contracts. It is als o not the case of 
the Assessing Officer that MIPL habitually maintain s a stock of 
goods or merchandise. Thus, the condition of (a) and  (b) are not 
fulfilled. The third condition in (c) is habitually  securing orders for 
the assessee. In this regard we note that the Assess ing Officer has 
made this allegation on the basis that commission h as been paid by 
the assessee company to the MIPL. On this basis it has been 
assumed that MIPL is securing orders. This contenti on of the 
Assessing Officer does not appear to be correct. As  per the 
agreement which has been quoted by the Assessing Of ficer in the 
assessment order, MIPL is supposed to put best effort  to collect 
information with regard to Instant Noodle project e tc. to make the5  
    
best effort to find the best candidate, to attend/ta ke care of the 
visitor from Japan, to make the best effort to anal yze the feasibility 
report. None of these clauses can be interpreted to m ean that MIPL 
is securing orders. On the basis of this clause the Assessing Officer 
was wrong in assuming that MIL is securing orders. The Assessing 
Officer has not brought any other material to subst antiate his 
allegation that may demonstrate that MIL has secure d orders for the 
assessee. It is to be noted that this clause (c) use s the word 
'habitually secures orders. Thus, there has to be pr ocurement of 
orders habitually. As against this the assessee's c ontention has 
been that MIPL is only providing support services an d it is not 
securing order on behalf of assessee company. It may  be relevant to 
further mention that the expression 'has' shall mea n a legal 
existence. Whereas 'habitually secures orders' shall  mean a 
systematic conduct on the part of the agent. Thus it  is not only a 
legal right to secure order but also it is to be fo und, as a matter of 
fact that agent has habitually secured order. 
4.2. Further, in this case the TP study of MIPL was subject matter of 
examination by the TPO. The FAR (Function performed, Assets 
deployed and Risk assumed) analysis has been accept ed by the 
TPO. These agreement on the basis of which Assessing  Officer has 
levied the allegation were also before the TPO. Thus, there cannot be 
any allegation that MIPL has performed any function  beyond what 
has been stated. Functional and economic analysis o f the 
transactions entered into having been examined noth ing further can 
be imputed. The services of MIL to assessee company were support 
services similar to the activities of a Liaison off ices. This fact gets 
also supported from the finding recorded by the Ass essing Officer 
himself in the assessment order on page 26 whereby it has been 
stated by the Assessing Officer that MIL is functio ning in the same 
manner as the LOs of the assessee are functioning i n India. It has 
already been held that Is do not constitutes PE in India. Thus, the 
functioning of MIL though a subsidiary and a compan y incorporated 
in India. but its activities vis-a-vis assessee com pany were akin to 
liaison office. It does not have authority to concl ude contract, it was 
not maintaining any stocks of goods and merchandise  nor it was 
securing order for the assessee company. 
In view of the above facts we reject the contention  of the learned 
CIT-DR that MIPL habitually secures order for the a ssessee 
company. And accordingly, none of the condition pres cribed in 
Article 5(7) are fulfilled. 
4.3. The second contention of the learned DR was tha t MIL is 
economically dependent on assessee company as major  revenue of 
MIPL is from assessee company. We are of the view t hat this per se 
cannot be ground to hold that MIPL is a Dependent A gent. For 
invoking this clause, first one of the three condit ions needs to be 
fulfilled. As we have held hereinabove that MIL does  not get covered 
Agent. The learned DR also made a reference to Conv entions on 
Double Taxation by Klaus Vogel to support its conte ntion that where6  
    
a person works only for one principle such person is economically 
dependent on the principal. In these circumstances the agent though 
not legally but will be bound to obey his principal' s instructions and 
be regarded as being Dependent Agent. This contentio n of the 
learned CIT-DR again ignores the basic requirement ie. fulfilling one 
of the three conditions. It is also important to not e that the DTAA 
provide for treating a person as Dependent Agent. The  DIA A has to 
be strictly interpreted. The DTAA having prescribed t he conditions, 
no further conditions can be read. What learned CIT- DR is 
canvassing will mean adding new condition in the DT AA. Further, it 
may be relevant to note that as per Para 9 of this Article 5 in DTAA, 
it has been specifically provided that if a company in the contracting 
state is controlled by a company in the other contr acting state that 
itself shall not itself constitute either of compan y a permanent 
establishment of the other. Thus, the fact that MIPL  is controlled by 
the assessee company shall not mean that MIPL is a PE of the 
assessee company. 
4.4 Our view gets supported by the judgment of Honor able Delhi 
High Court in the case of Director of Income Tax An d Others Versus 
M/S E Funds IT Solutions and Others 364 ITR 256 Delhi 
4.5 In view of the above, We hold that MIPL is not a  Dependent 
Agent PE of the assessee.” 
5. Accordingly, considering the above, the Ld. CIT( A) concluded as 
under:- 
“5.2.3 On perusal of submissions of the appellant and  
observations of the AO in the assessment order, it is noticed that 
the whole premise of the AO in making disallowance under 
section 40(a) (i) was the assessment completed in th e case of 
Mitusi & Co. Ltd (Japan) for the year under consider ation where 
the AO of the said company has relied upon the obse rvations of 
the AO in the assessment completed in the case of s aid company 
for the A.Y. 2005-06. It is further noticed that the  assessment 
order for the AY. 2005-06 in the case of Mitusi & Co . Ltd (Japan) 
was challenged by the assessee in ITAT and the appe al before 
the ITAT now stands disposed off (relevant extract of the order of 
ITAT quoted above) wherein the observations of the AO that the 
Mitsui India Pvt. Ltd. (appellant company in the ins tant case) is a 
Dependent PE agent of Mitusi & Co. Ltd (Japan) have now been 
decided by the ITAT. The ITAT has already held that  the 
appellant is not the PE of Mitusi & Co. Ltd (Japan) , hence in view 
of said findings of the Honorable ITAT there is no question of 
attribution of any profit of Mitusi & Co. Ltd (Japa n) to the 
appellant company. Accordingly, there is no question  of 
deduction of tax on the same. In view of the same, t he 
disallowance made by the AO under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, is 
directed to be deleted.”7  
    
6. Against the above order, the Revenue is in appea l before us. 
7. We have heard both the parties and perused the r ecords. The Ld. 
Counsel for the assessee stated that this issue is squarely covered in 
favour of the assessee by a series of orders of ITA T and also the matter has 
travelled to Hon’ble Delhi High Court. The case law s relied upon by the 
assessee is as under:- 
i. CIT (International Taxation)-2 vs M/s Mitsui and Co . (ITA 
No.38/2023)(Del. HC) 
ii. CIT (International Taxation)-2 vs M/s Mitsui and Co . (ITA 
No.321/2018)(Del. HC) 
iii. DCIT vs M/s Mitsui & Company India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA N o.1608 
& 1672      /Del/2016) 
iv. M/s Mitsui & Company Ltd. vs ADIT (ITA 
No.2335/Del/2011) 
v. DDIT vs Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (ITA Nos.2801, 4329 & 
4367/Del/2011, ITA No.794 & 795/Del/2012) 
vi. DCIT (International Taxation) vs M/s Mitsui & Co. ( 5106 & 
5108/Del/2015 and CO Nos.296 & 297/Del/2016) 
vii. Mitsui & Co. Ltd. vs DDIT (ITA No.4377/Del/2016) 
viii. ACIT (International Taxation) vs Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (ITA 
No.4764/Del/2016 & CO No.363/Del/2016) 
ix. ACIT (International Taxation) vs Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (ITA 
No.5901/Del/2016 & CO No.28/Del/2017) 
8. It may be gainful to refer the order of the Hon’ ble Delhi High Court 
in ITA No.321/Del/2018 vide order dated 31.01.2023 in this regard as 
under:- 
“1. This appeal concerns Assessment Year (AY) 2009-2 010, and 
is directed against the order dated 04.01.2022 pass ed by the 
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal [in short “Tribunal”].8  
    
2. The appellant/revenue has proposed the following questions 
of law.  
“A. Whether on the facts and circumstance of the cas e 
and in law, the Ld. ITAT erred in holding that the 
amount received to assessee on account of off-shore  
supplies in respect of Teesta and Purulia projects a re 
not taxable under the provisions of Section 44BBB o f 
the Act?  
B. Whether on the facts and circumstance of the cas e 
and in law, the Ld. ITAT erred in holding that the 
Liaison Office of the assessee did not constitute a  
Permanent Establishment, liable to tax in India whe n 
the said office was clearly a fixed place and the 
activities carried out could not be said to be prep aratory 
or auxiliary in nature?  
C. Whether on the facts and circumstance of the cas e 
and in law, the Ld. ITAT erred in holding that Liais on 
Office of the assessee does not constitute a PE in India?   
D. Whether on the facts and circumstance of the case  
and in law, the Ld. ITAT has erred in holding that no 
income is liable to be attributed in India as Mitsu i India 
Pvt. Ltd. (MIPL), the liaison office of the assessee, do not 
constitute a Dependent Agency Permanent 
Establishment (DAPE) of the assessee in India?  
E. Whether on the facts and circumstance of the case  
and in law, the Ld. ITAT erred in holding that the 
assessee's income from Teesta and Purulia Projects 
should be taxed on cash basis instead of Mercantile  
basis?”  
3. To be noted, this appeal emerges out of the cross objections 
raised on behalf of the respondent/assessee. There i s no 
dispute, that the only issue which arose for conside ration before 
the Tribunal concerned the following aspect i.e., whet her or not 
the respondent/assessee had a Dependent Agency Perm anent 
Establishment (DAPE) in India. Therefore, the questio ns of law, 
as noticed above, have been proposed in the appeal.  
4. Clearly, only questions shown as B, C and D arise for 
consideration in the present appeal.  
5. Mr Sanjay Kumar, learned senior standing counsel, who 
appears on behalf of the appellant/revenue, does no t dispute 
this position. Therefore, Mr Kumar says that he does  not wish to 
press the proposed questions, shown as A and E in th e instant 
appeal.9  
    
6. Insofar as the remaining questions are concerned i.e., those 
shown as B, C and D, they are covered, even according to Mr 
Sanjay Kumar, by the judgment of the coordinate ben ch dated 
09.11.2022 passed in ITA 321/2018 titled The Commiss ioner of 
Income Tax-International Tax v. Mitsui & Company Ltd.  
7. Accordingly, this appeal is closed, as no substan tial 
questions of law arise for our consideration.” 
9. Respectfully following the precedent as above, w e do not find any 
infirmity in the order of the Ld. CIT(A).  Accordin gly, we uphold the same. 
10. In the result, this appeal by the Revenue stand s dismissed. 
Order pronounced in the open court on 02 nd  March, 2023. 
     Sd/-                                    Sd/- 
       [ANUBHAV SHARMA]                               [SHAMIM YAHYA]  
        JUDICIAL MEMBER     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
Delhi; Dated: 02.03.2023. 
f{x~{tÜ f{x~{tÜ f{x~{tÜ f{x~{tÜ? ? ??     
Copy forwarded to:  
1. Appellant 
2. Respondent 
3. CIT     
4. CIT(A)   
5.     DR                                 
 Asst. Registrar,  
ITAT, New Delhi