IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
MUMBAI BENCH  “A”, MUMBAI  
 
BEFORE SHRI  AMIT SHUKLA, HON'BLE JUDICIAL MEMBER AND  
SHRI S. RIFAUR RAHMAN, HON'BLE ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
ITA NO. 1731 /MUM/20 22 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
402, Samajdeep Nr. Saraswat Bank  
J. Aadukla Road,  Kandivali (W)  
Mumbai - 400067  
 
PAN: AAVFA0012B  
 v. Pr.CIT -33 
Room No. 810, 8th Floor 
Kautilya Bhavan, C -41 to C -43 
G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex  
Bandra(E), Mumbai - 400051  
(Appellant)   (Respondent)  
 
Assessee Represented by  : Shri Anil Thakrar  
Department Represented by : Smt Shailaja Rai  
   
Date of Hearing  : 26.12.2022  
Date of Pronouncement  : 15.03.2023  
 
O R D E R  
 
PER S. RIFAUR RAHMAN (AM)  
1. This appeal is filed by the assessee against order of Learned 
Principal Commi ssioner of Income Tax –33, Mumbai  [hereinafter  in short 
“Ld. Pr.CIT )”] dated 06.05.2020 for the A.Y .2015-16 passed u/s. 263 of 
Income -tax Act, 1961 (in short “Act”).2 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
2. At the outset, w e observe that this appeal was filed on 04.07.2022  
after corona pandemic period.  After considering the Hon'ble Supreme 
Court decision on extension of limitation period, the delayed period of  
filing the appeal is condoned.  
3. Brief facts of the case are, Ld. Pr.CIT while verifying the  assessment 
records passed u/s. 143(3) of the Act for the A.Y. 2015 -16 observed that 
assessee is a firm, carry ing on business to buy, sell, films, TV serials, to 
produce treat process prepare, alter, develop, expose, edit, exhibit,  make, 
remake, display print reprint. convert, duplicate finish buy, sell run, 
import, export cine films. TV serials, advertising films, telefilms, 
documentary films etc. and to act as agent, broker distributor, proprieto r 
owners of copy rights, audio ri ghts.  Ld. Pr.CIT observed that Assessee 
has filed its return of income on 04.08.2015 declaring the total income at 
₹.32,07,540/- and Assessing Officer has accepted the above return as 
income of the assessee in order passed u/s. 143(3) of the Act . 
4. Ld. Pr.CIT  observed that the case was selected for Limited Scr utiny 
for the following reasons: - 
(i). Unsecured loans from the persons who have not filed their 
return of Income (Form 3CD)3 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
(ii). Receipts u/s 194C and 1943 (as per 26AS) are more than the 
receipts  Shown in ITR 4/5/6  
(iii). Tax credit claimed in ITR is less t han tax credit available in 
26AS 
(iv). Mismatch in sales turnover reported in Audit Report and ITR  
(v). Higher turnover reported in Services Tax Return as compared 
in ITR  
5. Further, Ld. Pr.CIT observed that in the case of unsecu red lenders 
like Vardhman Services and Jesal  Madlani, only ledger is kept in the file  
and the other informations , Balance Sheet and Bank  Statement of the 
lenders are not found in the record:  Further, he observed that in the case 
of lender Ravi Goenka no d etails were  found in the record .  The assessee 
was also  aware of the reasons for scrutiny selection during the course of 
assessment  proceedings  and it is a settled law  that the primary onus lies 
on the assessee to establish the identity,  creditworthiness a nd 
genuineness of the transactions duly claimed by the assessee in its return 
of income.  Therefore, the assessee failed to  discharge the primary onus 
of submitting necessary and relevant documents before the department.   
On the basis of the above fact tha t necessary/relevant documents needed 
to prove the veracity of the transaction  have not been provided by the 
assessee  and the Assessing Officer has passed the Assessment Order in 
absence of the necessary details on record is considered a s erroneous and4 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
prejudicial to the interest of the revenue .  Accordingly, Ld. Pr.CIT issued 
notice u/s. 263 of the Act and the following reasons were recorded  and 
supplied to the assessee: - 
“1. Subsequently, Remedial action in this regard was initiated by 
way of notice u's 263 of the Act dated 03.01.2020 The relevant 
extract of the notice is reproduced hereunder - 
On going through the details of Unsecured Loan it is seen 
that the assessee has taken loan of Rs 19,00,0000 from 
Vardham an Service Rs 500 000 from Jesal Madlani and  
Rs 5,00,000 from Ravi Goenka However, on perusal of 
case record, it is found that there are no details of the 
Unsecured lender Raw Goenka such as ledger, ITR 
Balance Sheet and bank statement available in the file. In 
the case of lenders like Jesal  Madlani  only ledger is  there 
in the file, but ITR Balance sheet and Bank Statement of 
the lenders are not on record Hence, the identity of the 
lenders and genuineness and creditworthiness of the 
transaction was not established by the assessee during 
the course of  assessment proceedings it is also pertinent 
to mention that the relevant extract to bank statement 
has not been provided for any of the unsecured lenders . 
In this regard, it is to state that the primary onus lies upon the 
assessee to establish the identity, genuineness & creditworthiness of 
the transaction and the assessee drastically failed to discharge the 
same. In the case of M/s. Ravi Goenka, no document  whatsoever 
has been submitted by the assessee, during the course of 
assessment proceedings to establish the identity of the unsecured 
lender genuineness of the transaction and the creditworthiness of 
the concerned party which was a primary requirement as one of the 
reasons for scrutiny selection was the Unsecured loans from persons 
who have not filed return of income Form (3CD)  
The Unsecured lenders from whom fresh loan have been received 
during the year are as under (as per the closing balance reported in  
financial statements)  
1. Radhey Realty  
2. Ravi Goenka5 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
3. Vardhman Services  
4. AtulRajani  
5. DilipDatwani  
6. Jesal Madlanı  
7. Mitul Shah  
8. Nitinkhakhar, HUF  
9. Ramniklal  Bathia  
10. Sandeep  Rajani  
 In view of the above stated facts, you were requested to 
provide the following details in case of  the unsecured lenders (as 
stated abo ve)- 
1. Copy of the Acknowledgement of Return of Income of unsecured 
lender along with computation of  income  
2. Running ledger account of the unsecured lender with assessee  
3. Source of fund for transaction for unsecured loan Relevant extract 
of bank statement of unsecured lender  showing payment to M/s AD 
WISE MEDIA  
4. Capital Account or Balance Sheet of the unsecured lender .” 
6. In response to various notices issued by Ld. Pr.CIT, assessee on 
28.02.2020 submitted that the details of all loan creditors have been 
uploaded in ITBA Portal on 27.02.2020 wherein all the required details 
such as loan confirmations, bank statements , PAN, RoI have been 
uploaded except RoI of Jesal Median  & Radhe Realty .  After verifying the 
same and the details submitted by the assessee, Ld. Pr.CIT observed as 
under: -  
“1. The source of fund of the unsecured lender has not been 
provided in any  of the pares/unsecured lenders.  In some cases ba nk 
statement of the unsecured lender has been provided which only6 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
shows the payment  entry to the assessee but the source of fund for 
the same has not been provided  
2. The copy of return of income alongwith computation of 
income has not been provided in the case of M /s. Ra dhey Realt y & 
Jesal Madiani which needs to be further examined in view of the 
conditions of section 68 of the Act wherein identity, genuineness and 
creditworthiness has to be established  
3. In the case of Radhey Realt y, no ban k statement  has been 
provided. Thus it can be inferred that the source of the unsecured 
loan received from it remains unexplained.  
4. More importantly the assessee has not been able to provide 
the documents specifically asked for in the  questionnaire during the 
proceeding .” 
7. With the above observations, Ld. Pr.CIT observed that the 
submissions of the assessee is not found to be acceptable, f urther 
observed that  assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer is found 
to the erroneous and prejudicial to the interest o f the revenue. 
Accordingly, the Assessing officer is directed to verify the details 
submitted by the assessee  during the course of review proceedings .  Since 
the source of fund has not been provided by the assesse in most of the 
cases  the Assessing Officer  as required to call for further details in this 
regard  and directed the Assessing Officer to examine  the identity, 
creditworthiness and genuineness of the transactions within the ambit of 
section 68 of the Act in particular Jesal  Madlani  and Radhe Realty,  after 
giving opportunity of being heard to the assessee .7 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
8. Aggrieved assessee preferred  appeal before us raising following 
grounds in its appeal: -  
“1.) The Ld CIT is erred in passing the order U/S 263 of the Act in 
spite of the fact that the Assessment wa s already framed U/s 143(3) 
of the Act.  
2.) The Ld CIT is also erred in directing the A.O. to proceed for 
Assessment U/s 143(3) r.w.s 263 in spite of the fact that, all the 
details were submitted at the time of original assessment proceeding 
U/s 143(3) as well as at the time of proceeding U/S 263 of the Act 
establishing credit worthiness, genuineness & capacity of the Lender.  
3.) The Ld CIT is erred in passing the order U/s 263 of the Act  
4.) The appellant request to delete the addition confirmed by the 
CIT (A). 
5.) The appellant craves to add, alter or omit any or all of the 
above grounds of appeal before or at the time of hearing of the 
appeal .” 
9. At the time of hearing, Ld. AR of the assessee brought to our notice, 
section 143(2) notice issued  by the Assess ing Officer dated 20.09.2016 
and a physical co py was filed before us and he brought to our notice 
various  issues raised by the Assessing Officer for the purpose of 
examination  and one of the item is unsecured loans . In this regard as per 
the direction of the Assessing Officer assessee has filed all the 
informations relating  to unsecured loans along with the loan confirmation, 
bank statements, RoI and computation of income and balance sheet of all 
the parties and with reg ard to two parties mentioned by the Ld. Pr.CIT8 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
i.e., Jesal  Median and Radhe Realty.  He submitted that assessee has 
submitted  all the informations  except the RoI w hich is not av ailable with 
the assessee at the time of assessment as well as during revision  
proceedings u/s. 263 of the Act.  He submitted that it is fact on record 
that assessee has complied with all the informations to prove the identity, 
creditworthiness and genuineness of the transactions except not able to 
file the RoI of the above said two parties .  It cannot be the reason to 
review the Assessment Order at this stage.  
10. On the other hand, Ld.DR with reference to Paper Book he 
submitted that it is no discernable  from the Paper Book that it has filed 
details before the Assessing Officer.  He bro ught to our notice Page No. 
12 and 13 of the Paper Book to highlight that information of the p apers 
were not available on record.  
11. In the rejoinder Ld. AR filed confirmation that assessee has no t filed 
only RoI  for the above said two parties and rest of all the informations 
were filed before the Assessing Officer as well as Ld. Pr.CIT.  Further, he 
submitted that the genuineness were proved before the Ld. Pr.CIT  in 
revision  proceedings by submit ting all the rele vant information to counte r9 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
the submissions made by the Ld.DR that all the informations  were not 
available on record.  
12. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record, we 
observe that Ld. Pr.CIT initiated the revision proceedings u/s. 263 of the 
Act by observing that the assessment record does not contain the 
informations and various documents relating  to unsecured loans.  He 
observed that  it is the duty of th e assessee to substantiate  the relevant 
details submitted  before the Assessing Office r parti cularly when the 
assessment proceedings initiated mainly to verify the unsecured loans.  
However, we observe that assessee has submitted that all these 
informations were submitted through ITBA Portal and since Ld. Pr.CIT 
could not trace the above sa id documents he asked the assessee to submit 
hard copy during the revision proceedings .  In the revision proceedings 
Ld. Pr.CIT verified all the informations and found that RoI was not 
available  with regard to two parties i.e., Jesal  Median and Radhe Realt y 
from whom assessee has taken loans outstanding amount of ₹. 5 lakhs 
and ₹.11.75 lakhs respectively .  From the record submitted before us 
clearly indicate that assessee has submitted all the documents relating to 
the various transactions under taken by the assessee with regard to10 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
unsecured loans.  From the Paper Book submitted before us it contains 
confirmations, bank statements, RoI and financial statements were 
submitted for all the unsecured loans parties, except RoI was not filed 
with regard to Jesal  Median and Radhe Realty .  Since all the other details 
are filed before  tax authorities except return of income of the above said 
two parties does not make the transactions as non -genuine.  In our 
considered view the other documents  submitted by the assesse e like 
confirmations, bank statements, and financial statements clearly prove 
that assessee has taken unsecured loans from these two parties.  
Therefore,  assessee has already proved the genuineness of the 
transactions.  Therefore,  without clearly  bringing on record how the above 
said transactions is non -genuine the Ld. Pr.CIT has merely remitted the 
issue back to the file of the Assessing Officer to redo the assessment as 
per the above said direction.  Accordingly, in our considered view the 
revision order passed u/s. 263 of the Act is not proper when the primary 
reason for initiating the review proceedings was relevant supporting 
documents were not available on record.  However, on finding  that the se 
were filed th rough ITBA portal and subsequent filing of the various  
documents in support of the transaction, Ld. Pr.CIT cannot send back one11 
ITA NO.1731/MUM/2022 (A.Y: 2015 -16) 
AD WISE MEDIA WORKS  
 
more time to the Assessing Officer to redo the assessment and 
accordingly, it is set -aside.  
13. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed.  
Order pronounced in the open court on 15th March , 2023 
 
 Sd/-          Sd/-  
(AMIT SHUKLA )      (S. RIFAUR RAHMAN ) 
JUDICIAL MEMBER      ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
Mumbai / Dated  15/03/2023 
Giridhar, Sr.PS  
 
 
Copy of the Order forwarded to :  
1. The Assessee  
2. The Respondent.  
3. The CIT(A), Mumbai.  
4. CIT 
5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai  
6. Guard file.  
 
//True Copy//  
BY ORDER  
 
 
(Asstt.  Registrar)  
ITAT, Mum