IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
“I” BENCH, MUMBAI  
 
BEFORE SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI , ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND  
SHRI SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL, JUDICIAL MEMBER  
 
ITA No.1521/Mum./2022  
(Assessment Year : 2018 –19)  ITA No. 1520 /Mum./20 22 
(Assessment Year : 201 9–20) 
 
American Chemical Society  
C/o Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP  
7th Floor, Building –10, Tower –B 
DLF Cyber City Complex  
DLF City, Phase –II, Gurgaon 1222002  
PAN – AALCA4959L   
……………. Appellant  
v/s 
Deputy  Commissioner of Income Tax  
International Taxation  
Circle –1(1)(1), Mumbai   
……………. Respondent  
 
      Asses see by  :   Shri Vishal Kalra  
            Shri S.S. Tomar  
Revenue by   :   Shri H.S. Usmani  
 
Date of Hearing – 16/08 /2022   Date of Order – 29/09/2022  
 
O R D E R  
PER SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL, J.M.  
 
The present appeal s have been filed by the assessee challenging 
separate final assessment orders of even date 20/04/2022, passed under 
section 143(3) r/w section 144C(13)  of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (“ the Act ”) 
for the assessment year 2018 –19 and 2019 –20. 
 
2. Since both the appeals pertain to the same assessee and issues 
involved are also , inter -alia, common, therefore these appeals were heardAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 2  together as a matter of convenience and are being adjudicated by way of this 
consolidated order.  With the consent of the parties, the appeal by the 
assessee for the assessment year 2018 –19 is taken up as a lead case and the 
decision therein would apply mutatis mutandis  to the appeal for the 
assessment year 2019 –20 as well, except with variance in figures.  
 
ITA no.1521/Mum./2022  
Assessment Year : 2018 –19 
 
3. In its appeal, the assessee  has raised following grounds:  
 
“Appeal under section 253(1)(d) of the Income -tax Act, 1961 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Act"), against the order dated 20 April 
2022 (received on 21 April 2022), pas sed by the Deputy Commissioner 
of Income Tax, International Taxation Circle 1(1)(1), Mumbai (L. AO") 
under section 143(3) read with section 144C(13) of the Act.  
 
1. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO has erred in assessi ng the total income of the Appellant under 
section 143(3) read with section 144C(13) of the Act at INR 
73,00,83,910 as against Nil returned income.  
 
2. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/ Dispute Resolution Panel ("DRP")  have erred in holding that the 
receipts from Indian customers amounting to INR 73,00,83,910 are 
chargeable to tax as royalty in terms of Article 12(3) of India -US Double 
Tax Avoidance Agreement ("DTAA") and under section 9(1)(vi) of the 
Act. 
 
2.1 That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, 
the Ld. AO/ DRP have erred in holding that the subscription charges 
received under Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) division and 
Publications (PUBS) division would be chargeable to tax in India unde r 
India-US DTAA being received for use or right to use of copyright in 
artistic, literary or scientific work and/or for use of information 
concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience and/ or for use 
of industrial, commercial or scientific eq uipment.  
 
2.2 That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/ DRP have erred in holding that the subscription charges received 
under CAS and PUBS divisions would be chargeable to tax in India under 
India-US DTAA being received for u se of ACS databases / software.American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 3  2.3 That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/DRP have erred in disregarding the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme 
Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private 
Limited (C ivil Appeal No. 8733 -8734 of 2018) while holding that the 
receipts of the Appellant be treated as being received for the use or 
right to use copyright in a literary or scientific work within the meaning 
of royalty as per section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well  as Article 12(3) of 
India-US DTAA.  
 
2.4 That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/DRP have erred in not following the decision passed by the Hon'ble 
Mumbai Bench of the Income -tax Appellate Tribunal ("ITAT") in 
Appellant's own  case for immediately preceding assessment years l.e. 
2014-15 to 2017 -18, wherein on similar facts and circumstances, the 
Hon'ble ITAT held that the revenue from CAS and PUBS division cannot 
be taxed as royalty under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well as Article 
12(3) of India -US DTAA.  
 
3. Without prejudice to the above grounds of appeal, the Ld. AO has 
erred in computing the tax payable on assessed income at the rate of 15 
percent, instead of 10 percent (inclusive of surcharge and cess), as per 
the benefi cial provisions of the Act.  
 
4. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO has erred in not granting credit of taxes deducted at source (TDS) 
amounting to INF 1,38,19,694, duly claimed by the Appellant in the 
return of income an d als appearing in the Form 26AS.  
 
5. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO has erred i n levying interest of INR 5,36,61,125 under section 234B 
of the Act. ”  
 
 
4. Ground no.1, raised in assessee‟s appeal being general in natur e, 
hence, no separate adjudication is required.  
 
5. The issue arising in ground no.2, raised in assessee‟s appeal , is with 
regard to taxability of subscription charges received by the assessee as 
“Royalty”  under the provisions of  Article –12(3) of Ind ia–USA Do uble Taxation 
Avoidance Agreement ( „DTAA ’) and under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act.  
 
6. The brief facts of the case pertaining to the issue, as emanating from 
the record, are: The assessee is a Corporation based in USA, established toAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 4  promote and support development of knowledge in the field of chemistry  and 
is organised into various divisions including Chemical Abstracts Service and 
Publications division. For the year under consideration, the assessee filed its 
return of income on 14/0 9/2018, declaring total income of Rs. Nil. During the 
year, the assessee claimed that the aforesaid two divisions are engaged in 
the following activities.  
  
“Re: CAS  
 
CAS collects and organizes publicly disclosed chemistry and related scientific 
information  in databases and offers its customers online access to such 
database (via research tools viz. STN and SciFinder) to view the databases 
and obtain standardized reports/ research articles therein, in consideration for 
an annual fee/subscription charge.  
 
The information/content is maintained and stored on data server(s) located in 
the US . 
 
Re: PUBS  
 
PUBS division reviews and publishes research work submitted by scientists 
worldwide, organizes the same into research journals/ e -books etc and online 
access to t he same is granted, in consideration for an annual fee/ subscription 
charges through a secure network as prescribed in the agreements. The 
information content is maintained on data server(s) located outside India. ” 
 
7. During the year, the assessee received following payment for providing 
products / services from outside India to Indian customers : 
  
1. Fee for providing access (by 
subscription) toonline chemistry 
databases (CAS division)  Rs.46,90,60,533  
2. Subscription revenue from sale 
of online journals (PUBS division)  Rs.26,91,23,375  
3. Subscription revenue from 
membership of M&SA division  Rs.49,22,425  
4. Advertising revenues  Rs.7,93,498American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 5  8. It was contended  by the assessee that none of these receipts qualify as 
royalty or fee for included services under the India –USA DTAA. During the 
course of assessment proceedings, it was found that the return of income of 
the assessee for the assessment year s 2014–15 to 2 017–18 were also 
scrutinized and in these years, the Assessing Officer has treated all the above 
revenues of the assessee except membership revenue and advertisement 
revenue as its income from Royalty taxable under the provisions of India USA 
DTAA. Further , during the course of assessment, the assessee submitted that 
its business model has remained same and streams of revenue are also same 
in comparison to previous year s and that no other income was earned by the 
assessee from India. The Assessing Officer, vide draft assessment order 
dated 30/06/2021, after noting that similar issue has been decided in favour 
of the assessee in all the aforesaid assessment years by the Co –ordinate 
Bench of the Tribunal , followed the approach adopted in earlier years and 
taxed subscription revenue earned by the assessee as “Royalty”  income on 
the basis that the Department has gone in further appeal before the Hon‟ble 
High Court in earlier a ssessment years.  
 
9. Being aggrieved, the assessee filed detailed objections before the 
Dispute Resolution Panel ( „DRP’), Vide Directions dated 09/03/2022, issued 
under section 144C(5) of the Act, the DRP, following its observations 
rendered in assessee‟s own  case for the assessment year s 2014–15 to 2016 –
17, rejected the objections filed by the assessee. In conformity, the Assessing 
Officer passed impugned final assessment order dated 20/04/2022. Being 
aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us.American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 6   
10. During th e course of hearing, the learned Authorised Representative 
(“learned A.R.” ) submitted that this issue has been decided in favour of the 
assessee by the decision of the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in 
assessee‟s own case for preceding assessment year s. The learned A.R. 
further submitted that even lower authorities have accepted that facts for the 
year under consideration are similar to the facts of the preceding assessment 
years, wherein this issue has been decided in favour of the assessee.  
 
11. On the oth er hand, the learned Departmental Representative ( “learned 
D.R.”) vehemently relied upon the order of the authorities below.  
 
12. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the material 
available on record. We find that the Co –ordinate Bench of the T ribunal in 
assessee‟s own case in American Chemical Society v/s DCIT, ITA no.6811/ 
Mum./2017, for the assessment year 2014 –15, vide order dated 26/10/2011, 
held that subscription revenue received by the assessee in Chemical Extract 
Service and Publication division does not qualify as “Royalty”  in terms of 
section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well as Article –12(3) of the India –USA DTAA. 
The relevant findings of the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal are as under: – 
  
“7. We have carefully considered the rival submissions, perused the relevant material, 
including the orders of the lower authorities as well as the case laws referred at the 
time of hearing. Notably, the controversy before us primarily revolves around the 
characterization of the income earned by th e assessee from the Indian subscribers. 
The income -tax authorities have invoked section 9(1)(vi) of the Act and/or Article 
12(3) of the India -USA Treaty in order to say that the receipts are in the nature of 
royalty, and therefore the same is taxable in In dia. On the contrary, as per the 
assessee, the impugned receipts are in the nature of business profits, and in the 
absence of any PE in India, the same are not taxable in India. In the earlier part of 
this order, we have noted in sufficient detail, the man ner in which the assessee earns 
the CAS fee from Indian subscribers, and the same is not being repeated for the sakeAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 7  of brevity. "Factually speaking, it is evident that the assessee merely accumulates and 
organizes information already available in public d omain / publicly disclosed 
information, and organizes the same at one place, thereby creating a database which 
is accessed by its customers against payment of subscription fee termed as CAS fee. 
Thus, prima facie, there is no copyright or intellectual prop erty lying with the assessee 
itself in relation to such information or the contents of the database. Thus, there 
cannot be a case that the assessee company has transacted in the copyrights or 
intellectual property rights of the contents of the database of information which is 
merely collated and collected by it. It is abundantly clear from a perusal of some of 
the sample agreements with customers (placed in the Paper book at pages 15 to 42) 
that what the customers get is only the right to search, view and d isplay information 
(whether online or by taking a print) and reproducing or exploiting the same in any 
manner; and its use for purposes other than personal use is strictly prohibited. 
Further, in para 7.12 of the assessment order, the Assessing Officer has  stated that 
the assessee has a wealth of industrial, commercial and scientific experience 
collected, developed and systemized over a period of time. Further, in para 7.13 of 
the assessment order, the Assessing Officer has also referred to paragraph 11 of 
OECD commentary on Article 12 to hold that the payment in question is to be 
understood as 'royalty. As per the  Assessing Officer, the technical, commercial or 
scientific information provided by the assessee to the Indian customers through 
SciFinder arises from its previous experience which gives economic benefit to the 
customers. The Assessing Officer also points out that ACS Network and SciFinder 
serve as a platform as well as a tool/gateway for access to such information. All these 
have been referred by t he Assessing Officer to arrive at an inference that the CAS fee 
is in the nature of 'royalty'; and, for that purpose, the Assessing Officer has referred 
to para 11 of the OECD commentary on Article 12. In fact, the OECD commentary 
which has been referred t o by the Assessing Officer itself provides an answer and 
belies the stand taken by the Assessing Officer. The OECD commentary referred in 
para 7.13 of the assessment order brings out that the payments which are to be 
understood as 'royalty' in the context of information concerning industrial, commercial 
or scientific experience ought to be in relation to information which is undivulged 
and/or arises from previous experience. In other words, in order to be understood as 
'royalty', the payment must be for inf ormation which is exclusively possessed or 
secret under the ownership of the grantor of such information. In our considered 
opinion, the fact -situation in the instant case does not comply with the aforesaid 
requirement so as to be treated as a payment for 'royalty'.  
 
8. As discussed earlier, in the instant case, the assessee merely identifies, 
aggregates, and organizes publicly disclosed chemistry related scientific information or 
publishes research work submitted by scientists worldwide. Thus, this information is 
clearly not undivulged; rather, it is an Information which is available in public domain, 
as is also evident from the factual position noted by the Assessing Officer himself in 
the assessment order. Further, chemistry and related scientific i nformation 
accumulated by the assessee in the form of a database is the experience of various 
scientists, researchers and various other persons and not that of the assessee. Thus, 
what the assessee collates is experience of others and provides access there to. The 
database does not provide any information arising from assessee's own previous 
experience or knowledge of the subject. The assessee's experience lies in the creation 
and maintaining the database, which cannot be labelled as industrial or commercial  or 
scientific in any way in the context of the receipts in question. In fact, it is nobody's 
plea that such experience is shared by the assessee with the Indian customers. The 
Indian customers do not make payments for availing the knowledge of assessee's 
experience of creating/maintaining database; what they pay for is access to 
information that such database encompasses. By granting access to the information 
forming part of the database, the assessee neither shares its own experience, 
technique or methodo logy employed in evolving databases with the users, nor imparts 
any information relating to them.American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 8   
9. In this context, the learned Counsel pointed out that similar situation has been 
considered by the AAR ruling in the case of Dun and Bradstreet Espana S.A .(supra), 
which has been upheld by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of DIT vs. Dun 
and Bradstreet information Services Indio (P) Ltd. (supra). In this case, the applicant, 
a non -resident company of Spain was engaged in the business of compilation and 
selling Business Information Reports (BIR) in their local markets and to other 
associate companies worldwide. On the issue of whether the payment made for the 
purchase of BIRS would be in the nature of Royalty, the AAR opined that the applicant 
has rig htly equated the transaction of sale of Business Information Reports  in 
electronic form to a sale of book, which does not involve any transfer of intellectual 
property and held that the payment to non -resident company for downloading BIRS is 
not in the nat ure of Royalty or fee for technical services. The AAR held that the 
purchase of standardized reports publicly available on the internet upon payment of 
subscription charges is akin to payment for a copyrighted article and accordingly does 
not constitute Ro yalty. Relevant extract of the AAR ruling is as follows:  
 
"1. This application......  
DB US is the leading seller of BIRS enabling business -to-business commerce for about 
160 years. The operating subsidiaries and associates of D& B US in each country are 
engaged in compilation and selling BIRS in their local markets and to other associate 
companies worldwide as their core business. Each associate company of D&B compiles 
the information in respect of companies functioning in its cou ntry in the standardized D&B 
format which is electronically uploaded on the server of the associates companies and is 
copied (mirrored) on the Central data base server situated in US. DBIS is also engaged in 
a similar business of compilation and selling BI Rs in respect of business entities, either 
they are incorporated in their respective countries or doing business in their country. The 
US server farm is owned and operated by D&B US and it contains mirror servers of all the 
D&B associate companies. The mod us operandi of the business of DBIS is that whenever 
an Indian customer places an order for a BIR in respect of a company situated in Spain, 
DBIS would access the master server of D&B US. Thereupon, the master server would 
identify DBIS and would allow acc ess to connect to the mirror server of the applicant 
which is situated in US server farm. It was then DBIS would request the applicant for a 
BIR of the company for which the Indian customer has placed an order. On locating the 
required BIR, DBIS would down load, print and deliver a copy thereof to the customer. 
DBIS is under an obligation not to take additional copies or reproduce the BIR in any 
manner or sell it to any customer other  than Indian customer on whose requisition the 
BIR is ordered because the B IR is copyright protected with the copy right vested in the 
applicant who prepares the BIR. There is further obligation on the Indian customer to use 
the BIR for its own purpose, the copyright in the BIR would neither be licensed nor 
assigned to either the  DBIS or the Indian customer  ………….  
 
7. It will be  ………….  
The instant case it is not a case of paying consideration for the use of or right to use any 
copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work or any patent trade mark or for information 
of commercia l experience. The Commissioner sought to bring the payments under 
royalty/fees for technical service for the reason that the BIRS are copyright protected and 
end-users are required to use for their own purpose and the analysis of raw data provided 
in the B IRS would be similar to that of providing a technical or consultancy services. We 
have already mentioned above that a BIR is a standardized product of D&B, it provides 
factual information on the existence, operation, financial condition, management and 
experience line of business, facility and location of a company; it also provides special 
events like any suit, lien, judgment or previous or pending bankruptcy. Further, banking 
relationship and accountants, information like whether it is a patent company or  authority 
concerned, has any branches etc. It also gives a rating of the company. The informations 
that are provided in a BIR are said to be publicly available; they are collected and 
complied by D&B associates. A BIR is accessible by any subscriber on pa yment of requisite 
price with regular internet access for which no particular software or hardware is 
required . The applicant states that access to data base of the applicant is available to 
public at large at a price as in case of buying a book and it is not a pre -requisite, that BIR 
must be downloaded by DBIS only and in fact some clients, such as Expert credit 
guarantee corporation, in fact, access the server themselves to download BIR. The 
applicant does not have any server in India for the use of DBIS.  Indeed the applicant hasAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 9  specifically averred that the copyright in the BIR would neither be licensed nor assigned 
to either  the DBIS or the Indian customer. From these aspects it is clear that the 
aforementioned ruling of the Authority is distinguishable  on facts. If a group of companies 
collects information about the historical places and places of interest for tourists in each 
country and all informations are maintained on a central computer which is accessible to 
each constituent of the Group in each c ountry, can a supply of such information 
electronically on payment of price be treated as royalty or fee for technical services? We 
think not . 
(underlined for emphasis by us)  
 
10. In this context, we also think it apposite to refer to the judgment rendered  by the 
Hon'ble Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT vs. HEG Limited [2003] 263 
ITR 230 (MP). In the aforesaid case, the assessee paid certain amount to a firm of 
USA for purchase of some information. The Assessing Officer held that the said 
transa ction involved imparting of information concerning technical, industrial, 
commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill, and, therefore, the payment 
was royalty for purchase of data of confidential nature and the assessee was liable to 
deduct TDS  thereon. The matter travelled to the High Court and it held that purchase 
of any and every type of commercial information cannot earn the status of royalty. To 
have the status of royalty, the information transacted should have some special 
features, which  is hitherto not available in public domain. The relevant extract of the 
said ruling is as follows:  
 
"20...... That apart we have already indicated that every information would not have in 
the status of royalty. There are various kinds of categories of inf ormation. Solely because 
an entry of the commercial nature would not make it a royalty. That cannot be exclusive 
base or foundation. Some sort of expertise or skill is required. The aforesaid  factor would 
be the requite one. We are not inclined to accept t he bio of M. Arye that every 
information if it concerns the Industres commercial venture would be a royalty. That 
would tamount to state the low quite broadly That does not seem to be the purpose of 
the statute or that of the treaty."  
(Emphasis supplied ) 
 
11. With respect to the subscription fee for the CAS division being considered as 
Royalty for "use" of or "right to use" of a copyright, a reference to Copyright Act, 1957 
is also relevant. A person can be said to have acquired a copyright or the right to use 
the copyright in a computer software or database (as described by the Assessing 
Officer), where he is authorized to do all or any of the acts as per the definition of the 
term "copyright" under Section 14 of the Copyright Act, 1957. However, mere acces s 
to that work or permission to use the work cannot imply that the payer is paying for 
use or right to use the copyright. In other words, when no copyright is acquired by 
the payer, question of using it or getting a right to use it does not arise . 
 
12. In the present context, we may also examine the issue from another angle as 
follows. The transfer of a copyrighted right means that the recipient has a right to 
commercially exploit the database/software, eg. reproduce, duplicate or sub -license 
the same; such  payments may be classified as royalty, but factually speaking in the 
present no such rights in database or search tools (SciFinder or STN) are acquired by 
the customers, as is evident from the terms of the sample agreement of CAS 
customers in our consider ed view, transfer of any right in a copyrighted article is  
analogous to the rights acquired by the purchaser of a book. In the case of a book, 
the publisher of the book grants the purchaser certain rights with respect to the use of 
the content of the book,  which is copyrighted, but the purchaser of the book does not 
acquire the right to exploit the underlying copyright. When the purchaser reads the 
book, he only enjoys its contents. Similarly, the user of the copyrighted software does 
not receive the right to exploit the copyright in the software; he only enjoys the 
product/benefits of the product in the normal course of his business. Similarly, in the 
instant case, customers of the assessee only enjoy the benefits of using SciFinder and 
STN and do not acqui re the right to exploit any copyright in these software. TheAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 10  difference between a copyright and a copyrighted article in context of software has 
been brought out very clearly by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of 
Tata Consultancy Services vs . State of Andhra Pradesh (supra).  
 
13. In view of the aforesaid discussion, in our considered view, the income earned by 
the assessee from the Indian Customers with respect to the subscription fees for CAS 
cannot be taxed as royalty as per section 9(1)(vi ) of the Act as well as Article 12(3) of 
the India -USA DTAA. Thus, assessee succeeds on this issue.  
 
14. We shall now advert to another issue, which pertains to whether income earned 
by the assessee from the Indian Customers with respect to the subscriptio n fees for 
PUBS division be taxed as royalty in terms of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well as 
Article 12(3) of the India -USA DTAA . 
 
15. Before us, the Ld. Senior Counsel pointed out that the characteristics of the PUBS 
divisions is similar to CAS division, which has been dealt at length by us in the 
foregoing paragraphs. The Learned Senior Counsel submitted that the PUBS division 
of the assessee reviews and publishes research work submitted by scientists 
worldwide, organizes the same into research journals/ e -books and engages in 
subscription sales of internet and print copies of such research journals. The assessee 
grants online/ web based access to e -journals, e -books, chapters, articles, 
proceedings, etc., stored on the server, in consideration f or an annual fee 
/subscription charges. Such e -journals/ e -books can be searched by a subscriber by 
using relevant keywords on PUBS website after logging in by using their log -in 
credentials. Customers are merely granted access to search and view the e jou rnals 
and obtain standardized reports/research articles available therein with no right to use 
the copyright in the e -journals/ articles. The agreements (as filed in the Paper book at 
page 43 to 71) entered by the assessee with the customers provide that c opyright in 
the e-books, e -journals etc., remain with the assessee and the customers do not have 
any right of ownership on the same. The access to e -journals etc. is given only for 
limited users and the same is restricted to specified authorized sites /use rs per 
customer through the IP address of customers. The web access journals can only be 
accessed by the customers/authorized users through a secure network as prescribed 
in the agreements.  
 
16. On the other hand, the Ld. Departmental Representative for th e Revenue has 
merely reiterated the stand of the lower authorities on the PUBS division similar to 
stand with respect to taxability of the CAS fee.  
 
17. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material on record 
including the order of the lower authorities on the issue in dispute. We find that issue 
with respect to the PUBS division coincides with the issues on the CAS fee. The journal 
provided by the PUBS division do not provide any information arising from assessee's 
previous experien ce. The assessee's experience lies in the creation of maintaining 
such information online. By granting access to the journals, the assessee neither 
shares its experiences, techniques or methodology employed in evolving databases 
with the users, nor imparts  any information relating to them. As is clearly evident 
from the sample agreements, all that the customers get is the right to search, view 
and display the articles (whether online or by taking a print) and reproducing or 
exploiting the same in any manner  other than for personal use is strictly prohibited. 
Further, the customers do not get any rights to the journal or articles therein. They 
can only view the article in the journal that they have subscribed to and cannot 
amend or replicate or reproduce the journal. Thus, the customers are only able to 
access journal/articles for personal use of the information. No 'use or right to use' in 
any copyright or any other intellectual property of any kind is provided by the 
assessee to its customers. Furthermore, t he information resides on servers outside 
India, to which the customers have no right or access, nor do they possess control orAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 11  dominion over the servers in any way. Therefore, the question of such payments 
qualifying as consideration for use or right to u se any equipment, whether industrial, 
commercial or scientific, does not arise.  
 
18. To put a comparison, if someone purchases a book, then the consideration paid is 
not for the use of the copyright in the book/article. The purchaser of a book does not 
acquire the right to make multiple copies for re -sale or to make derivative works of 
the book, i.e., the purchaser of a book does not obtain the copyright in the book. 
Similarly, the purchaser of the assessee's journals, articles or database access does 
not h ave the right to make copies for re -sale and does not have the right to make 
derivative works. In short, the purchaser has not acquired the copyright of the article 
or of the database. What the buyer gets is a copyrighted product, and accordingly the 
consideration paid is not royalty, but for purchase of a product. In the instant case 
too, what is acquired by the customer is a copyrighted article, copyrights of which 
continue to lie with assessee for all purposes. It is a well settled law that copyrighted 
article is different from a copyright, and that consideration for the former, i.e. a 
copyrighted article does not qualify as royalties.  
 
19. Thus, the principles noted by us in the earlier part of this order in the context of 
the income earned by way of CAS  fee are squarely applicable to the subscription 
revenue received from customers of PUBS division for sale of journal also, and 
accordingly PUBS fee also does not qualify as 'Royalty' in terms of section 9(1)(vi) of 
the Act as well as Article 12(3) of the India-USA DTAA. ” 
 
 
13. We further find that the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in assessee‟s 
own case in American Chemical Society v/s DCIT, ITA no.5928/Mum./2018, 
for the assessment year 2015 –16, vide order dated 21/08/2019, rendered 
similar finding s following the aforesaid decision in the immediately preceding 
assessment year. Similar ly was held in assessment year 2016 –17 and 2017 –
18 by the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in assessee‟s own case in ITA 
no. 6952/Mum./2019 and ITA no.1030/Mum./2021, vide or der dated 
13/12/2019 and 26/10/2021, respectively.  
 
14. The learned Departmental Representative ( “learned D.R. ”) could not 
show us any reason to deviate from the aforesaid decisions rendered in 
assessee‟s own case and no change in facts and law was alleged in the 
relevant assessment year. The issue arising in the present appeal is recurring 
in nature and has been dec ided by the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal inAmerican Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 12  preceding assessment years. Thus, respectfully following the orders passed 
by the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal  in assessee‟s own case cited supra, 
we uphold the plea of the assessee and delete the impug ned addition in 
respect of subscription fee received by the assessee under Chemical Abstract 
Service and Publications division. As a result, ground no.2, raised by the 
assessee is allowed.  
 
15. Ground no.3, relates to alternate plea that the Assessing Officer has 
erred in determining the tax payable on assessed income at 15%  instead of 
10%. Since we have allowed ground no.2, of the appeal holding that the 
income of the assessee is not liable to be taxed in India, therefore, this 
ground of appeal is rendered aca demic.   
 
16. Ground  no.4, raised in assessee‟s appeal is pertaining to non –grant of 
credit of TDS.  This issue is restore d to the file of the Assessing Officer with 
direction to grant TDS credit, in accordance with law , after conducting 
necessary verification.  As a result, ground no.4 raised in assessee‟s appeal is 
allowed for statis tical purpose.  
 
17. Insofar as ground no .5, raised in assessee‟s appeal is concerned, the 
same relates to charging of interest under section 234B of the Act, which is 
consequential in nature . Therefore,  ground no.5 is allowed for statistical 
purpose.  
 
18. In the result,  appeal by the assessee is allowed for statistical purpose .American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 13  ITA no.1520/Mum./2022  
Assessment Year : 2019 –20 
 
19. In its appeal, the assessee has raised following grounds: – 
 
“Appeal under section 253(1)(d) of the Income -tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Act"), against the order dated 20 April 2022 (received on 
21 April 2022), passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, 
International Taxation Circle 1(1)(1), Mu mbai CLd. AO") under section 143(3) 
read with section 144C(13) of the Act.  
 
1.  That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. AO has 
erred in  assessing the total income of the Appellant under section 143(3) read 
with section  144C(13) of the Act at INR 2,72,29,58,740 as against Nil 
returned income.  
 
2. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. AO / 
Dispute Resolution Panel ("DRP") have erred in holding that the receipts from 
Indian customers amounting to INR 2, 72,29,58,740 are chargeable to tax as 
royalty in terms of Article 12(3) of India -US Double Tax Avoidance Agreement 
("DTAA") and under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act.  
 
2.1 That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/ DRP have erred in holding that the subscription charges received under 
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) division and Publications (PUBS) division 
would be chargeable to tax in India under India -US DTAA being received for 
use or right to use of copyright in artistic,  literary or scientific work and / or 
for use of information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific 
experience and / or for use of industrial, commercial or scientific equipment.  
 
2.2 That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the  Ld. AO/ 
DRP have erred in holding that the subscription charges received under CAS 
and PUBS divisions would be chargeable to tax in India under India -US DTAA 
being received for use of ACS databases / software.  
 
2.3 That on the facts and circumstances of t he case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/DRP have erred in completing ignoring the decision of the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence 
Private Limited (Civil Appeal No. 8733 -8734 of 2018) while holding that the 
receipts of the Appellant be treated as being received for the use or right to 
use copyright in a literary or scientific work within the meaning of royalty as 
per section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well as Article 12(3) of India -US DTAA.  
 
2.4 That on the facts and circums tances of the case and in law, the Ld. 
AO/DRP have erred in not following the decision passed by the Hon'ble 
Mumbai Bench of the Income -tax Appellate Tribunal ("ITAT") in Appellant's 
own case for immediately preceding assessment years i.e. AY 2014 -15 to 
2017-18, wherein on similar facts and circumstances, the Hon'ble ITAT held 
that the revenue from CAS and PUBS division cannot be taxed as royalty 
under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act as well as Article 12(3) of India -US DTAA.American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 14  3.  That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. AO has 
erred in  levying interest of INR 10,17,03,380  under section 2348 of the Act. ” 
 
20. Ground no.1, raised in assessee‟s appeal being general in nature, 
hence, no separate adjudication is required.  
 
21. The issue arising in ground no.2, raised in assessee‟s appeal , is with 
regard to taxability of subscription charges received by the assessee as 
“Royalty”  under the provisions of  Article –12(3) of India –USA DTAA and under 
section 9(1)(vi) of the Act . As similar issue has been decided in assessee‟s 
appeal for assessment year 201 8-19, the decision rendered therein will apply 
mutatis mutandis  to this year also . As a result, ground no.2, raised by the 
assessee is allowed.  
 
22. Insofar as ground no.3, raised in assessee‟s appeal is concerned, the 
same relates to charging of interest under section 234B of the Act, which is 
consequential in nature. Therefore, ground no. 3 is allowed for statistical 
purpose.  
 
23. In the result, appeal by the assessee is allowed for statistical purp ose. 
 
24. To sum up, both the appeals by the assessee are allowed for statistical 
purposes.  
Order pronounced in the open Court on 29/09/2022 
 
Sd/- 
PRASHANT MAHARISHI  
ACCOUNTANT MEMBER   
 
 
   Sd/- 
SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL  
JUDICIAL MEMBER  
MUMBAI,   DATED:   29/09/2022American Chemical Society  
ITA No s. 1521/Mum./2022  and  
1520/Mum./2022  
Page | 15  Copy of the order forwarded to : 
 
(1) The Assessee;  
(2) The Revenue;  
(3) The CIT(A);  
(4) The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;  
(5) The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;  
(6) Guard file . 
                          True Copy  
                   By Order  
Pradeep J. Chowdhury  
Sr. Private Secretary  
 
               Assistant Registrar  
           ITAT, Mumbai