1 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
MUMBAI BENCHES “C”,MUMBAI 
  
BEFORE SHRI JOGINDER SINGH (JUDICIAL MEMBER)  
AND 
SHRI ASHWANI TANEJA (ACCOUNTANT MEMBER) 
I.T.A. No.6274/Mum/2014 
(Assessment year : 2010-11) 
ITO 5(2)-1 
Mumbai vs Odessa Solutions Pvt Ltd 
Bungalow No.13, Grand Paradise 
Apartments, Kemps Corner, 
Mumbai 400 036 
PAN : AAACO5449C   
(Appellant)  (Respondent) 
 
Appellant by Shri Abhishek Sharma, DR 
Respondent by Shri Sachin (Partner) 
 Date of hearing    : 03-05-2016 
 Date of pronouncement   : 18-05-2016 
O R D E R  
Per ASHWANI TANEJA, AM 
 
 This is an appeal by the revenue raising following  grounds of appeal: 
 
“1. "Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, 
the Ld. (CIT(A) erred in allowing assesssee's claim  for deduction u/s. 
10A without appreciating the facts of the case."  
 
The appellant prays that the order of the Ld. CIT(A ) be set aside and  
the order of the AO be restored.” 
 
2. The only issue raised in this appeal by the reve nue is with regard to 
deduction allowed u/s 10A by ld.CIT(A).  During the  course of hearing, ld.DR 
relied upon the order of the Assessing Officer.2 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
3. Per contra, the ld.counsel submitted that assess ee had claimed 
deduction u/s 10B in its return.  But during the co urse of assessment 
proceedings, the same was not found to be allowable  by the Assessing Officer 
on the ground that approval from the competent auth ority was not available  
which was mandatory for claiming deduction u/s 10B.   Under these 
circumstances, the assessee alternatively claimed e xemption u/s 10A and 
submitted that it fulfilled all the conditions u/s 10A and was  eligible to claim 
the deduction.    All requisite evidences were also  filed in this regard before the 
Assessing Officer .  The Assessing Officer did not doubt the eligibility of the 
assessee to claim deduction u/s 10A, but denied the  benefit of the same in 
view of judgment of Hon’ble Supreme Court in the ca se of Goetze India Ltd 284 
ITR 323 (SC).  During the course of appeal before t he ld.CIT(A), the assessee 
demonstrated that it had submitted before the Asses sing Officer Form No.56F 
being a report prescribed u/s 10A of the Income-tax  Act, 1961 dated 15 th  July, 
2010 showing that assessee was eligible to claim de duction u/s 10A of 
Rs.1,17,57,148.  The assessee also demonstrated tha t it had fulfilled all 
requisite conditions for claiming deduction u/s 10A  of the Act.  After 
considering the submissions of the assessee it was found by ld.CIT(A) that 
assessee was eligible to claim deduction u/s 10A an d the same should be 
allowed even if a claim was made in the given circu mstances, for the first time 
during the course of assessment proceedings.  Relev ant part of order of 
ld.CIT(A) is reproduced below : 
 
“5.1 I have carefully considered the facts and circ umstances o the 
case, statement of facts, relevant assessment order , written 
submission, relied upon case laws and the arguments  made by the 
LAR before the undersigned.3 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
5.2 The only substantial issue of dispute in this a ppeal is the claim 
of appellant of deduction u/s 10A of the I.T. Act.  In the return of 
income appellant  made a claim u/s  l0B of the I.T.  Act but during the  
assessment proceedings when it was pointed out by t he AO that in 
the light decision of Delhi High Court in the case of M/ s Regency 
Creations the appellant is not eligible for its cla im  u/s 10B as the 
assessee does not have approval required for claimi ng the deduction 
u/s l0B from the competent Board of Approval. There after, the 
appellant made a request to AO that if deduction u/ s l0B is denied 
then the deduction u/s l0A should be given to the a ppellant as it 
fulfills the conditions of deduction u/s 10 
A.  The AO did not agree to such claim of the appel lant on the ground  
the revised return has not been filed in this case,  therefore, in the 
light e decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of M/s Goetz India 
Ltd. in of revised return the claim u/ s l0A cannot  be allowed. The 
appellant, on the other hand, has pleaded during th e appellate 
proceedings that in its the decision of Hon'ble Ape x Court is not 
applicable because in the instant case there is no change in the 
returned income as the quantum of deduction u/s l0A  and l0B 
remains the same. It is contended by the appellant that after the 
limitation of time for filing of revised return the  appellant could only 
make a claim during the assessment proceedings by t he revised 
computation of income and calculation of deduction u/ s 10A in 
prescribed proforma. The appellant has mainly relie d upon the 
decision of two cases (i) M/ s Prithvi Brokers & Sh areholders 349 ITR 
336 (Bom)  holding that additional claims can be ma de before the 
appellate authorities and (ii) M/ s Efextra solutio ns P. Ltd. 
313/Del/2012 (ITAT Delhi)  wherein under similar ci rcumstances, as in 
the instant case, the appellant made alternate clai m of deduction u/s 
l0A instead of section10B rut filing revised return . The appellant has 
also pleaded that in turn the appellant filed revis ed return and therein 
the AO has also allowed deduction u/s l0A as the ap pellant fulfills the 
conditions for the same. After considering the riva l submissions, as 
well as the aforesaid case laws lied upon by the ap pellant I do not 
agree with the finding of the AO that in subsequent  assessment year 
when time limit permitted filing of revised return the appellant filed 
revised return and therein the Assessing Officer ha s also allowed 
deduction u/s 10A as the appellant fulfils the cond itions for the same.  
After considering the rival submissions, as well as  he aforesaid case 
laws relid upon by the appellant I do not agree wit h the finding of he4 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
Assessing Officer that in view of the decision of M /s Goetz India Ltd. 
deduction u/s l0A cannot be lowed to the appellant because it is a 
fact that (i) the appellant fulfills the conditions  of section l0A which is 
further strengthen from the fact that in subsequent  years also the AO 
has allowed it to the appellant. (ii) there is no r ange in the returned 
income because the deduction claimed by the appella nt u/s l0A & lOB 
are equal and the returned income is not reduced , claiming the 
deduction ix] s l0A. When the other conditions of c laim of deduction 
u/s l0A are fulfilled, then the appellant deserves the deduction, 
accordingly, following the ratio of the decision of  Delhi ITAT in the 
case M/s Efextra Esolutions P. Ltd. where under alm ost similar 
circumstances the alternative claim of the appellan t for deduction ix] 
s l0A without filing the revised return was allowed , in the instant case 
also the AO is directed to low the same.” 
 
4. Thus, it is noted from the above that on facts a nd law, the assessee was 
eligible  for deduction u/s 10A.  The only obstacle  was that the claim in this 
regard was made during the course of assessment pro ceedings in substitution 
of earlier claim of deduction u/s 10B.  In our cons idered view, the object of the 
assessment proceedings is to determine the correct amount of income and tax 
payable thereon.  The revenue officials are not exp ected to collect the tax 
without the authority of law.  The tax should never  be collected for any 
amount which is more than the amount actually payab le by the assessee as per 
law.  The law has given ample powers to the assessi ng officers to make proper 
assessment of income of an assessee and simultaneou sly the legislature has 
also put various duties and obligations upon the AO s to ensure that no unfair 
or incorrect assessment is made upon a taxpayer.  U ndoubtedly, making of 
claim in accordance with the law is the primary res ponsibility of the assessee. 
But, if the assessee somehow failed to do so in the  most appropriate manner 
as it should have been done, and if on an earliest occasion such a failure or 
lapse is brought to the notice of the Assessing Off icer, then, it is equally a duty 
of the Assessing Officer to ensure that a valid cla im of deduction / expense is5 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
not denied to the assessee especially when the asse ssee has complied with all 
the substantive conditions of the law. 
5. We have support of many judgements to support ou r view.  Immediate 
reference could be made to the judgment of the Hon’ ble Bombay High Court in 
the case of M/s Prithvi Brokers & Shareholders 349 ITR 336 (Bom) as well as 
the judgment of Hon’ble Delhi High Court in the cas e of CIT vs Jai Parabolic 
Springs Ltd 306 ITR 42 (Del).  We find that CIT(A) has written a well reasoned 
order while allowing claim of deduction u/s 10A to the assessee.  Nothing  
wrong could be pointed out by the ld.DR during the course of hearing and, 
therefore, we are inclined to uphold the order of l d.CIT(A). 
6. It is further brought to our notice that the Ass essing Officer has himself 
granted the benefit of deduction u/s 10A for an amo unt of Rs.21,83,30,737 in 
the order passed u/s 143(3) dated 31-12-2013 for A. Y. 2012-13.  Thus, we find 
no reason to deny the benefit of deduction for the year before us.  Under 
these circumstances, the order of the ld.CIT(A) is upheld and ground raised by 
the revenue is dismissed. 
7. In the result, appeal of the revenue is dismisse d. 
 Order pronounced in the court on 18 th   May, 2016. 
 
 
   Sd/-       sd/- 
(JOGINDER SINGH) (ASHWANI TANEJA) 
JUDICIAL MEMBER ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
 
Mumbai, Dt : 18 th  May, 2016 
 
Pk/-6 
ITA No.6274/Mum/2014 
 
Copy to : 
1. The appellant 
2. The respondent 
3. The CIT(A) 
4. The CIT 
5. The Ld. Departmental Representative for the Revenue ,”C” Bench 
(True copy)        By order 
 
     ASSTT.REGISTRAR, ITAT, MUMBAI BENCHES