THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
“I” Bench, Mumbai 
  Shri Shamim Yahya (AM) & Ms. Kavitha Rajagopal (J M) 
 
 I.T.A. No. 7205/Mum/2018 (A.Y. 2011-12)   
 
Atos Information Technology 
HK Limited 
C/o. Atos India Private Limited  
8th  Floor, Building No. 3, 
Mindspace, Gigaplex, Plot No. 
I.T.-5, MIDC, Airoli Knowledge 
Park, TTC Industrial Area 
Airoli West, Navi Mumbai-708. Vs. DCIT (IT)-(1)(2) 
Room No. 528 
5th  Floor, Air 
India Building 
Nariman Point 
Mumbai-400 021.  
(Appellant) (Respondent) 
 
Assessee by     S/Shri Dhanesh Bafna, Hirali 
Desai & Amol Mahajan 
Department by  Ms. Surbhi Sharma   
Date of Hearing      14.02.2022 
Date of Pronouncement  01.03.2022 
  
 O R D E R  
 
Per Shamim Yahya (AM) :- 
  
 This appeal by the assessee is directed against th e order of Assessing 
Officer dated 3.10.2018 under section 143(3) read w ith section 254 and 
144C(13) of the I.T. Act. 
 
2.  The grounds of appeal read as under :- 
1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case an d in law, the Learned 
Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax (International Taxa tion) 1(1)(2), Mumbai 
('the Learned AO') and the Dispute Resolution Panel ('the DRP') erred in 
holding the sum of Rs.40,46,45,646/- as 'Royalty' u nder Section 9(1)(vi) of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 ('the Act'). 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be di rected to not treat the       
aforesaid receipts as 'Royalty' u/s. 9(1)(vi) of the Act. 
 
2.   On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Learned 
AO and the DRP erred in holding the sum of Rs.40,46, 45,646/- as 'Fees for 
Technical Services' under Section 9(1)(vii) of the Ac t. 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be di rected to not treat the 
aforesaid receipts as 'Fees for Technical Services' u/s. 9(1)(vii) of the Act.Atos Information Technology HK Limited 
  2
 
3.  On the facts an in the circumstances of the case and i n law, the 
Learned AO erred in considering business connection  issue for the first time, 
which was not a subject matter at the time of appellate  proceedings before the 
Hon’ble ITAT. While doing so, the Learned AO has no t appreciated that no 
directions were provided by the Hon'ble ITAT with res pect to the same. 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the action of the Learne d AO in considering 
the business connection issue be held as bad in law s ince remand proceedings 
are conducted beyond the directions provided by the H onourable ITAT. 
 
4. Without prejudice to the above Ground, the Learned A O and DRP erred 
in holding the sum of Rs. 40,46,45,646/- by SCB Indi a to the Appellant as 
'Business Income' under Section 9(1)(i) of the Act.  
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be di rected to not treat the 
aforesaid receipts as 'Business Income' under Sectio n 9(1)(i) of the Ac 
 
5.   Without prejudice to the above Ground nos. 3 and 4 , even if it is alleged that 
the aforesaid receipts are 'Business Income' under Se ction 9(1)(i) of the Act, such 
receipts cannot be taxed in India in view of clause (a) of Explanation l to Section 
9(i)(i) of the Act as no activities are carried out by  the Appellant in India.  
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be di rected to not treat the 
aforesaid receipts as 'Business Income' under Sectio n 9(1)(i) of the Act. 
 
6.  Without prejudice to above Ground Nos. 1, 2, 3,  4 and 5, the Learned AO and 
the DRP erred in denying the benefit of the rate prescr ibed under section u/s. 
115A of the Act.  
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be dire cted to compute the 
tax liability at the rate prescribed under section 1 15A of the Act. 
 
7.   On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Learned 
AO has erred in giving short credit for the taxes paid  on regular assessment. In 
the Income Tax Computation Form, credit of taxes paid is  Rs. 12,19,39,066 
instead of Rs. 14,53,46,828 resulting in short credi t of taxes amounting to Rs. 
2,34,07,762.  
 
The Appellant humbly prays for allowance of full cr edit of taxes paid on 
regular assessment 
 
8.   On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Learned 
AO erred in initiating penalty proceedings under sec tion 271(1)(c) of the Act.  
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be dir ected to not initiate the 
penalty proceedings.”Atos Information Technology HK Limited 
  3
3. Brief facts of the case are that this is the sec ond round of appeal before 
the ITAT. In the original round ITAT has remitted t he issue to the file of the 
Assessing Officer. Grounds of appeal before the Tri bunal in the first round 
read as under :- 
 
"1.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the 
Learned Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax (Internatio nal Taxation)-1(1)(2), 
Mumbai ('the Learned AO') and the Dispute Resolution  Panel ('the DRP') 
erred in holding the sum of Rs.40,46,45,646 as 'Roy alty' and 'Fees for 
Technical Services' under Section 9(l)(vi) and 9(l)( vii) of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 ('the Act'). In doing so, the Learned AO and the  DRP disregarded the 
Contract for Provision of Computing Services entered  into between the 
Appellant and Standard Chartered Bank, India ('SCB In dia') for the services 
rendered by the Appellant to SCB India. 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the aforesaid receipt s should not be taxed 
in India and the Learned AO be directed accordingly . 
 
1.2 Without prejudice to above Ground No. 1.1, the Lear ned AO and the DRP 
erred in denying the benefit of the rate prescribed u nder section 1 ISA of the 
Act. In doing so, the Learned AO and the DRP held tha t SCB India being a 
non resident company does not fall within the ambit o f the term 'Indian 
concern' as per the provisions of section 1 ISA of the  Act and accordingly, the 
provisions of section 1 ISA of the Act do not apply to  the payments made by 
SCB India. 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be dire cted to apply the 
rate as prescribed under section 115A of the Act. 
 
1.3 Without prejudice to Ground Nos. 1.1 to 1.2, on th e facts and in the 
circumstances of the case and in law, while calculati ng the tax liability of the 
Appellant, the Learned AO has erred in taxing income on gross receipts 
instead of net receipts received by the Appellant, ( i.e. after deducting the 
expenses attributable to gross receipts). 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be dir ected to compute the 
chargeable income of the Appellant by adopting net rece ipts instead of gross 
receipts. 
 
2. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case a nd in law, the Learned 
AO erred in granting a short credit of TDS amounting  to Rs.4,33,02,870. 
 
The Appellant humbly prays that the Learned AO be direc ted to grant a 
credit for the aforesaid TDS as per the section 199 of the Act read with Rule 
37BA of the Income-tax Rules, 1962. 
 
3.   On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the 
Learned AO erred in levying interest under section 2 34B of the ActAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  4
amounting to Rs. 5,83,38,488 without appreciating that the entire income of 
the Appellant is subject to deduction of tax at source an d hence, the question 
of advance tax does not arise.” 
 
4.  The ITAT in the said case after noting the facts an d the orders of the 
authorities below has remanded the matter by observ ing as under :-  
 
“9. At the time of hearing, the AR submitted that the is sue was and reached 
the ITAT in the case of the assessee in assessment yea rs 2006-07 and 2008-
09 in ITAs no. 6562/Mum/2009 and 6889/Mum/2011, whe rein the 
coordinate Bench mentions, 
 
“......... that the liability or otherwise of the asse ssee regarding its 
receipts has to be re-adjudicated in the light of afor ementioned 
retrospective amendment. The orders passed in the as sessee's case by 
the AO, DRP and ITAT are prior to the aforementioned a mendment in 
the Statute. Therefore, we are of the opinion that it wou ld serve the 
interest of Justice if all these appeal except STA No . 6888/Mum/201 1 
are restored back to the file of the AO with a directi on to re-adjudicate 
the issues in accordance with law after giving furthe r opportunity to 
the assessee and placing all the material required fo r adjudication of 
the issues raised in the present appeals. After givi ng opportunity the 
AO will readjudicate all the issues raised in the pr esent appeals as per 
provisions of law. 
 
7.1 Similar is the position in respect of Ground No. 1.3 & l.4and 
additional ground No. 1.5 in which the assesses has r aised grievances 
regarding rates of tax to be applied on the above rec eipts. All these 
issues on merits are to be readjudicated as per law i n ITA No. 
6762/Mum/2009 & 219/Mum/2010 being cross appeals in  respect of 
assessment year 2006-07 against original assessment . 
 
7.2 The other issues raised in ITA No. 6888/Mum/2011  regarding 
leviability of interest under section 234B which was admitted to be 
consequential and with a rider that assessee has libe rty to show 
before AO why it is not liable for levy of interest un der section 234B, 
the matter would be re-adjudicated in original assess ment proceedings 
as discussed in para 5.3 of this order". 
 
10. Based on the above decision of the ITAT in the pre ceding year(s), the AR 
submitted that for the sake of consistency, the issue, in the current years, 
deserved to be restored to the file of the AO.  
 
11.  The DR did not object to the submission of the AR f or restoration of 
the issue to the file of the AO. 
 
12. On hearing both the sides, we are of the view that since the preceding 
years were awaiting adjudication at the AO stage, it wo uld be inappropriate 
for us, to come to any conclusion. We, therefore, set aside the orders of theAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  5
revenue authorities and restore the issue to the file o f the AO for afresh 
adjudication, in line with the decision taken by the  AO in the preceding 
years(s). Needless to mention, adequate and reasonable  opportunity shall be 
given to the assessee, to present its case. 
 
13. Grounds no. 1.2 & 1.3 pertain to rates of tax to b e applied. 
 
These grounds being linked to ground no. 1, This iss ue is also set aside to 
the file of the AO, who shall compute the tax as per the amended provisions, 
after giving adequate opportunity to the assessee. 
 
14. Ground no. 1.1 is therefore, allowed for statistic al purposes. 
 
15. Ground no. 2 pertains to not giving credit of TDS of Rs. 9,54,980/-. 
 
16. The AO is legally bound to allow TDS to the assess ee as per law. We, 
therefore, direct the AO to allow the undisputed and le gally correct claim of 
TDS & on doing so, the AO shall allow the benefit of TDS, as claimed in the 
GOA. 
 
17. Grounds no. 3 & 4 pertain to chargeability of int erest u/s 234A and 
 
18. The eligibility of interest is consequential to the  tax computed. Bend 
consequential, the AO is directed to recompute the in terest u/s & 234B as 
per law. 
19. In the result, the appeal as filed by the assessee  is allowed for statistical 
purposes." 
 
8. Respectfully following the afore-stated orders o f the co-ordinate Bench of the 
Mumbai-Tribunal in the assessee company's own case f or the assessment year 
2009-10 in ITA No. 7321/Mum/2012, we also set aside the orders of the 
Revenue Authorities in the instant appeal in ITA No. 14 64/Mum/2015 for the 
assessment year 2011-12 and restore all the issues ra ised by the assessee 
company in the ground of appeal filed with the Trib unal to the file of the A.O. for 
de-novo determination of all the afore-stated issues on merits in accordance with 
law and also keeping in view the direction given by  the Tribunal hereinabove in 
the appeal in ITA No, 7321/Mum/2012 for the assessmen t year 2009-10. 
Needless to say, the adequate and proper opportunity of hearing will be granted 
by the AO to the assessee company in accordance with th e principles of natural 
justice in accordance with law. We order accordingly . 
 
9. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee company in ITA No. 
l464/Mum/2015 for the assessment year 2011-12 is allo wed for statistical 
purposes.” 
 
Pursuant to the said remand present assessment was framed. In assessment 
order the Assessing Officer has noted that the ITAT  in ITA No. 
1464/Mum/2015 had passed an order dated 4.3.2016 in  which the additions 
are deleted and the issue has been set aside to the  file of the Assessing OfficerAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  6
for denova adjudication of all the issues. The Asse ssing Officer noted that the 
submissions of the assessee during assessment proce edings were same as in 
A.Y. 2009-10. That contention of the assessee was a lready rejected by the 
Department and it has been held that the receipts f rom SCB, India are 
Royalty/FTS specially after the retrospective amend ments section 9 of the Act. 
Without prejudice to the above the Assessing Office r held that  :- 
 
“15.  Without prejudice to the assessee's submission an d, further, without 
prejudice to the stand of the Department that the payments by SCB India to 
the assessee can be taxed in India as royalty and/or FTS, it is also held that 
the said payments can also be taxed as 'business incom e' under section 9(l)(i) 
of the Act. Section 9(l)(i) of the Act is reproduced hereunder : 
 
Income deemed to accrue or arise in India. 
 
9. (1) The following incomes shall be deemed to accr ue or arise in 
India '— 
 
(i) all income accruing or arising, whether directly  or indirectly, 
through or from any business connection in India, or  through or from 
any property in India, or through or from any asset or source of 
income in India, or through the transfer of a capital  asset situate in 
India. 
 
Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this clause— 
(a) in the case of a business of which all the operat ions are not carried 
out in India, the income of the business deemed under  this clause to 
accrue or arise in India shall be only such part of  the income as is 
reasonably attributable to the operations carried out in India;  
 
Explanation 4.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby  clarified that 
the expression "through" shall mean and include and sh all be deemed 
to have always meant and included "by means of, "in c onsequence of 
or "by reason of. 
 
Thus, as per the provisions of section 9(l)(i), if a non-resident person has a 
source of income in India then such income shall be  deemed to accrue or 
arise in India, and thereby taxable in India. It is an  undeniable fact of the 
case that SCB India is a source of income for the asse ssee in India. 
Therefore, the income of the assessee out of the receip ts from SCB India is 
taxable under the third leg of section 9(l)(i), read w ith section 4 and 5(2)(b) of 
the Act. 
 
16. The business income of the assessee is taxable un der the first leg of 
section 9(l)(i) of the Act read with its Explanation 1. In the instant case, a 
number of services are carried out by the assessee, e ither directly or through 
its representative, in the various branches in India. Besides, the risksAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  7
associated with the performance of the obligations und er the Contract are 
assumed by the assessee in India. Therefore, a numbe r of 'operations' are 
carried out by the assessee in India. The income attri butable to such 
'operations' is, therefore, taxable in India where it i s finally adjudicated by 
appellate authorities that the receipts from SCB, Indi a, do not constitute as 
Royalty/FTS. Since, the receipts from SCB, India, alr eady treated as Royalty/ 
FTS, no attribution of profits is being made of now a s the same is not 
required.” 
 
Above order was also proposed in the draft assessment order and the appeal 
before the DRP. Learned DRP rejected the assessee’s co ntention and 
confirmed the Assessing Officer’s order.” 
 
5.  Against the above order, Assessee is in appeal befo re us.  
 
6.  We have heard both the parties and perused the reco rds. Learned 
Counsel of the assessee has submitted that as regar ds Ground No. 1&2 the 
same is covered in favour of the assessee by the IT AT’s order in assessee’s own 
case by a series of orders for seven years. He subm itted that in ITA No. 237 to 
240/Mum/2016 for A.Y. 2006-07 to 2012-13 vide order  dated 9.2.2017 the 
matter was identically remanded to the Assessing Of ficer and subsequent to 
that remand the ITAT has held as under :- 
 
7.  The ITAT’s order for taxability of payment received  from assessee from 
SCB India read as under :-  
18. We have carefully considered the entire gamut of facts as discussed 
above, relevant findings given in the impugned order as well as the rival 
submissions made before us. The main issue involved , which has been raised 
vide ground no. 1.1 is, whether the payments made by  Standard Chartered 
Bank India (SCB) to the assessee is in the nature of ‘r oyalty’ u/s 9(1)(vi) or 
‘fees for technical services’. Since the assessee-com pany is incorporated in 
Hong Kong and is providing services/facilities for p rocessing data to SCB 
from Hong Kong, therefore, the payment made by SCB Ind ia to assessee has 
to be seen from the perspective of domestic law, i.e.  Income-tax Act and not 
under any treaty. The assessee-company is mainly eng aged in the business 
of providing services/facilities for data processing through computer 
hardware and software to banking entities. It had ente red into an agreement 
which has been termed as "Cocteau agreement" with SCB for provision of 
data processing support, which is for 68 countries wi th various branches. 
Under the said ‘Cocteau agreement’, the role and res ponsibilities of assessee 
in respect of providing data processing services has already been discussed 
in detail in the earlier part of the order including t he manner in which the 
entire processing activity is carried out. The Revenue ’s case is that first of all, 
it is in the nature of royalty and for coming to this  conclusion, the mainAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  8
contention of Assessing Officer is that, firstly, the a ssessee is not merely 
providing data processing services, but also providin g technology in the form 
of data centre, infrastructure, connectivity and appli cation technology for its 
banking operations; and secondly, it has created an d provided facility in the 
form of dedicated centres for exclusive use of SCB w ith disaster recovery 
facility and storage facility. These infrastructure f acilities in the form of data 
centre, storage area network, disaster recovery faci lity and dedicated network 
connectivity is translated into functional process by defined service flow for 
the various geographic locations for various business  application which 
would constitute process. The assessee in this process  has also made 
available SCB use of its equipment, model, design, invention and process. 
After coming to the conclusion that the payment is in the nature of "royalty" 
within the scope of section 9(1)(vi), the revenue went  further to hold that, 
since assessee has provided technical, managerial a nd consultancy services 
to SCB, therefore, it also falls in the nature of „FTS ‟ and for coming to this 
conclusion, certain clauses in the Cocteau agreement  has been referred to. 
19. First of all, we will deal with the issue whether the said payment falls 
within the realm of ‘royalty’ or not. From the perusal  of the various clauses of 
the agreement which has been referred to extensively b y both the parties at 
the time of hearing and discussed herein above, we fi nd that the main 
objective of the ‘Cocteau agreement’ is to provide SCB  group all across the 
world, processing of data through a network of comput er systems in Hong 
Kong. In the entire agreement there is no whisper of any technology transfer 
or application of technology per se to SCB. This is a  kind of outsourcing 
activity which has been given by SCB to Atos to proces s its data from various 
branches across the country. We agree with the conten tion of the ld. Counsel 
that the reference to the various details in the agreemen t is merely to ensure 
quality, standard and various safeguards which are to  be adopted in the 
course of processing data especially looking the vol ume of data required to be 
processed from all around the Globe. The provisions mainly contains 
assessee’s responsibility to ensure adequate facilit y, systems and software 
which are located in Hong Kong and to ensure that all the hardware which is 
used in Hong Kong is maintained and housed in secure d building space and 
infrastructure, manage proper performance of the hard ware and operating 
systems, ensure adequate technical support of operati ng systems, to ensure 
system performance, maintain adequate security measu res and effective 
internal control environment and also put in place ap propriate disaster 
recovery plan. All these are to be maintained by the as sessee to conduct the 
processing of data through computers. There is no pr oviding or giving any 
use or right to use of any process to SCB. The technol ogy, infrastructure, 
data centre, connectivity, etc. is solely used by the a ssessee for its own 
purposes and not to make available any such thing to SC B as explained by 
the ld. Counsel. At the first stage, SCB transmits raw data through operating 
software owned by it to the hardware facility of asse ssee in Hong Kong. The 
assessee in Hong Kong mainly receives the data so tra nsmitted and at this 
stage there is absolutely no use or right to use of an y process of assessee in 
Hong Kong by SCB. At the second stage, the raw data tran smitted by SCB is 
processed by the assessee in its computer system/har dware as per the 
requirement of SCB and at times may be using the appl ication software 
owned by SCB. At this stage also, SCB does not use or h ave any right to use 
any process. At the third stage, the processed data is t ransmittedAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  9
electronically to SCB in India and at this stage also th ere is no use or right to 
use of any process which is given or made available  to SCB. Here, in this 
case there is absolutely no use of equipment also as alleged by the 
Department within the definition given in clause (iv a ) of Explanation 2 to 
Sec. 9(1)(vi) of the Act. The said clause deals mainl y with the ‘use ’ or ‘right to 
use’ any industrial, commercial or scientific equipm ent and applies only to 
income from leasing of such industrial, commercial or scientific equipment. 
This is borne out from the Memorandum to the Finance B ill, 2001 through 
which the said clause was inserted w.e.f. 1.4.2002,  the relevant extract of the 
Memorandum has already been incorporated in the earl ier part of our order 
and same proposition is also held by Mumbai Bench in  Yahoo India P, Ltd. 
Vs DCIT (supra). Here, in the case of assessee, there  is no income from 
leasing of any equipment. The legislature thus, has clearly envisaged that 
clause (iva) is to cover lease rent of industrial, co mmercial and scientific 
equipment in the definition of royalty and the said d efinition has been 
widened to that extent only. Thus, there is no concept of right to use of 
equipment here in this case. So far as applicability  of Explanation 5 & 6 are 
concerned, we agree with the contentions of ld. Counse l, as reproduced 
above, that same would not be applicable at all in the c ase of assessee 
because, firstly, Explanation 6 enlarges the scope o f process to include 
transmission by satellite cable, fibre optic, etc.; a nd secondly, Explanation 5 
is applicable where consideration is of any right, p roperty or information as 
defined in clauses (i) to (v) of Explanation 2 only a nd not in clause (iva) for 
the reason that Explanation 5 has been inserted with r etrospective effect 
from June 1, 1976. In other words, Explanation 5 has been inserted 
retrospectively from the birth of Section 9(1)(vi) to clarify the intention behind 
the legislation. Hence, Explanation 5 is to be read with  the Section 
9(1)(vi) which was there on the statute as on April 1 , 1976. Whereas clause 
(iva) to Explanation 2 was inserted from April 1, 20 02. Thus, retrospective 
effect of clause (iva) cannot be deemed from 1.06.197 6 and hence it cannot 
be held that Explanation 5 also applies to the said cla use as this clause 
never existed as on April 1, 1976 and accordingly, the legislation cannot 
clarify the intention of the clause which never exis ted on the said date. Hence 
Explanation 5 & 6 would not be applicable in the cas e of assessee. 
 
20. Further, for any payment to fall within the term of "royalty" it is sine qua 
non that there should be some kind of a transfer of a ny right in respect of 
various items as given in Explanation - 2 or any im parting of any information 
or use of any patent, invention, model, design, sec ret formula, process, etc. 
Here, in this case, there is neither transfer of any of right in respect of any 
patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or p rocess or trademark or 
any similar property by the assessee to SCB, nor the re is any imparting of 
any information or use of any of similar nature of thi ngs. Here, the entire 
equipment and technology which are used for process ing the data is solely 
for performing the activity of assessee for itself wh ile rendering data 
processing services to SCB. There is absolutely no tr ansfer of any technology, 
information, knowhow or any of the terms used in Exp lanation 2 or any kind 
of providing of technology in the form of data centr e, infrastructure, 
connectivity and application technology by the assesse e to SCB for SCB’s 
banking operations. Thus, we are of the opinion that t he payment made byAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  10 
SCB to assessee-company does not fall within the realm of "royalty" and 
hence cannot be taxed in India as royalty u/s 9(1)(vi ) of the Act. 
 
21. As regards whether the payment is in the nature of FTS or not, we find 
that the provision regarding services provided by ass essee to SCB is mainly a 
standard facility and there is no constant human endeav our or human 
intervention which is required to provide the data ser vicing service. As stated 
earlier, raw data fed into by SCB India are transmitted  to assessee and the 
data so transmitted stands captured by the mainframe c omputers owned by 
assessee wherein such data are processed automaticall y and the final result 
is then transmitted to SCB India. All these transmissio n and processing of 
data is done automatically by computers and there is n ot much human 
involvement or intervention. There is no application of mind by the 
employees of assessee on said data because, they are processed through 
programmed software and neither any verification nor  any analysis is carried 
out by the assessee on such data. The employees of the assessee-company 
are only required to oversee as to whether the compute r systems are 
functioning properly and performing well and if ther e is any breakdown or 
fault, then same needs to be taken care of. The human intervention if at all is 
mainly for repairing and monitoring the hardware and software of the 
assessee which are processing the raw data of SCB an d there is no human 
involvement or endeavour for rendering any kind of t echnical or consultancy 
services in data processing. It has been stated that bef ore us that even the 
faults are corrected automatically. Further, looking to  the number of volume 
of transactions transmitted by SCB to assessee, it would  be impossible for 
any number of humans to apply their mind and generat e reports. This has 
been demonstrated by the ld. Counsel before us by wa y of an example which 
has been already incorporated above. Thus, the magni tude of transactions 
undertaken by assessee itself goes to show that the compu ter systems 
installed by the assessee in Hong Kong is standard fa cility through which 
data is processed. In this regard, strong reliance w as placed on the decision 
of ITAT, Mumbai Bench in the case of Siemens Limited  (supra), wherein the 
Tribunal has emphasised upon the element of human in tervention for 
rendering of technical services. The relevant observ ation in this regard reads 
as under:- 
"------------------------In our opinion, this cannot b e the criteria for 
understanding the term "technical services" as contempl ated in 
Explanation 2 to section 9 (1)(vii). If any person del ivers any technical 
skills or services or make available any such servi ces through aid of 
any machine, equipment or any kind of technology, th en such a 
rendering of services can be inferred as "technical services". In such a 
situation there is a constant human endeavour and the involvement of 
the human interface. On the contrary, if any technolo gy or machine 
developed by human and put to operation automatically,  wherein 
it operates without any much of human interface or in tervention, then 
usage of such technology cannot per se be held as re ndering of 
"technical services" by human skills. It is obvious t hat in such a 
situation some human involvement could be there but it i s not a 
constant endeavour of the human in the process. Merely because 
certificates have been provided by the humans after a test is carriedAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  11 
out in a Laboratory automatically by the machines, it c annot be held 
that services have been provided through the human sk ills. 
 
Even in the latest decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court i n the case of M/s. 
Kotak Securities Ltd. (supra), (the relevant portion of  which has already been 
reproduced above), the Hon’ble Court opined that, if services are provided 
through fully automated standard facility, the same ca nnot be reckoned as 
rendering of technical services as contemplated u/s 9(1)(vii) of the Act. The 
relevant observation reads as under:- 
 
"8. ..... All such services, fully automated, are ava ilable to all members 
of the stock exchange in respect of every transaction t hat is entered 
into. There is nothing special, exclusive or customize d service that is 
rendered by the Stock Exchange. "Technical services" l ike "Managerial 
and Consultancy service" would denote seeking of ser vices to cater to 
the special needs of the consumer/user as may be fel t necessary and 
the making of the same available by the service prov ider. It is the 
above feature that would distinguish/identify a servi ce provided from 
a facility offered. While the former is special and  exclusive to the 
seeker of the service, the latter, even if termed as  a service, is available 
to all and would therefore stand out in distinction to th e former. The 
service provided by the Stock Exchange for which trans action charges 
are paid fails to satisfy the aforesaid test of specia lized, exclusive and 
individual requirement of the user of consumer who ma y approach the 
service provider for such assistance/service. It is o nly service of the 
above kind that according to us, should come within th e ambit of the 
expression "technical services" appearing in Explana tion 2 of Section 
9(1)(vii) of the Act. In the absence of the above dis tinguishing feature, 
service, though rendered, would be mere in the natur e of a facility 
offered or available which would not be covered by t he aforesaid 
provision of the Act." 
Before us, the ld. Counsel has also pointed out that as sessee is also 
providing similar services to other clients like Hon g Kong Government and 
other big MNEs and there is nothing special or exclus ive about the services 
which are being rendered to SCB. In view of the entir e gamut of facts as 
discussed above, we are of the opinion that the payme nt made by SCB to 
assessee- company does not fall within the realm of ‘fees for technical 
services ’ as contained in Sec. 9(1)(vii), albeit the assessee h as only provided a 
standard facility for data processing without any huma n intervention. 
Accordingly, we hold that the said payment is not taxab le in India as ‘fees for 
technical services’ in terms of Sec. 9(1)(vii) of th e Act. Thus, the issue raised 
in ground no. 1.1 is decided in favour of the assess ee.” 
8.  As regards ground No 3&4, learned Counsel of the as sessee stated that 
this issue was not at all remanded by the ITAT and the fresh round is 
pursuant to the remand on specific direction of exa mining royalty under 
section 9(1)(vi) and 9(1)(vii). The Assessing Offic er has discussed this issue andAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  12 
made addition without prejudice basis. He submitted  that since the matter was 
remanded for specific purpose the Assessing Officer  cannot be allowed to 
venture into a new area. He submitted that noting b y learned DRP and 
Assessing Officer that the ITAT has remanded the ma tter for denovo 
adjudication is absolutely incorrect. He further su bmitted that even on merit 
the said issue is in favour of the assessee. 
 
9.  Per contra learned Departmental Representative reli ed upon the orders 
of the authorities below. She also relied upon the written submission of the 
learned Departmental Representative dated 17.9.2021  submitted earlier. In the 
said submission on the issue of taxability of payme nt as royalty/FTS, learned 
Departmental Representative had tried to distinguis h the ITAT’s order in 
assessee’s own case by submitting that the ITAT err ed in allowing assessee’s 
appeal by accepting assessee’s contention. Thereaft er learned DR also 
supported without prejudice new issue raised by the  assessee on the ground 
that learned DRP has noted that the ITAT has set as ide the issue for denovo 
consideration. Learned CIT-DR conspicuously did not  mention to ITAT order 
itself pointing out as to where it is mentioned to be for denovo consideration.   
 
10.  Upon careful consideration in this regard, we note that the issue of 
taxability under section 9(1)(vi) & 9(1)(vii) has b een duly dealt with by the ITAT 
pursuant to similar remand in favour of the assesse e. It is not the case that 
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court has reversed the said decision. The 
contention of learned Departmental Representative t hat the said order is 
erroneous is not at all sustainable, as review of t he Coordinate Bench of the 
ITAT of the same assessee is not permissible by ano ther Bench of the ITAT. 
Hence, ground No. 1&2 is allowed in favour of the a ssessee. 
11.  In ground No. 3 raised by the assessee it is urged that the issue of 
business connection developed by the Assessing Offi cer is without jurisdiction 
as this is a remand proceeding for specific examina tion and not for denovoAtos Information Technology HK Limited 
  13 
examination. Hence, assessee’s plea is that the Ass essing Officer’s order is not 
sustainable.  
12.  In the present case we have noted that in the reman d by the ITAT the 
issue was remanded for specific purpose. It was rem anded to examine the 
issue of taxability in term of section 9(1)(vi) and  9(1)(vii). This without prejudice 
to order by the Assessing Officer taxing the receip t as business income u/s. 
9(1)(i) was never dealt with by the Assessing Offic er in the original proceedings 
nor the ITAT has made any such remand for denovo ad judication. Hence, this 
issue raised by the assessee is allowed and orders of the authorities are set 
aside being devoid of jurisdiction in remand procee dings.  In view of our 
adjudication as above the other grounds raised with out prejudice are held to 
be infructuous.  
 
13.  Ground No. 7 is consequential. The Assessing Office r will give effect to 
the same accordingly as per law.  
 
14.  In the result, the appeal by the assessee stands pa rtly allowed.  
Order pronounced in the open court on 1.3.2022.  
 
Sd/- Sd/- 
(KAVITHA RAJAGOPAL ) (SHAMIM YAHYA) 
JUDICIAL MEMBER ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
                   
Mumbai; Dated :   01/03/2022                                                
 
Copy of the Order forwarded  to  :  
  
1.  The Appellant 
2.  The Respondent 
3.  The CIT(A) 
4.  CIT 
5.  DR, ITAT, Mumbai 
6.  Guard File.  
         
BY ORDER, 
 //True Copy// 
      
    (Assistant Registrar) 
PS                 ITAT, Mumbai