IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
 MUMBAI ‘C’ BENCH, MUMBAI. 
 
Before Shri B.R. Baskaran (AM) & Shri Rahul Chaudha ry (JM) 
  
 I.T.A. No. 1577/Mum/2022 (A.Y. 2009-10)  
  
Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
7/8, 102-A, Madhavwadi 
Naigaon Assessee Road, Dadar-E  
Mumbai-400 014. 
 
PAN : AABCC7957J   Vs. ITO, Ward-6(2)(1) 
Aayakar Bhavan 
M.K. Road 
Mumbai-400 020. 
 
(Appellant) (Respondent) 
 
 Assessee by     Shri H.S. Raheja 
Department by  Shri  Dilip K. Shah  
Date of Hearing      05 .01.202 3 
Date of Pronouncement  06.03.2023 
  
 O R D E R  
 
Per B.R.Baskaran (AM)  :- 
  
The assessee has filed this appeal challenging the order dated 
20.04.2022 passed by Ld CIT(A), NFAC, Delhi and it relates to the 
assessment year 2009-10.  The assessee is aggrieved  by the decision of Ld 
CIT(A) in confirming the validity of reopening of a ssessment and also 
confirming the addition made u/s 68 of the Act to t he extent of Rs.60.00 
lakhs. 
 
2.     The assessee is a private limited company an d is engaged in the 
business of manufacturing of fabrics.  For the year  under consideration, the 
assessee did not file return of income.  The revenu e carried out search and 
seizure operations in the hands of one Sri Vipul Vi dur Bhatt, who was found 
to be providing accommodation entries in the form o f bogus purchases, 
unsecured loans, share capital etc through a group of companies controlled 
by him.  It was noticed that the assessee has recei ved share capital from 
some of the companies controlled by him to the tune  of Rs.85.50 lakhs.Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 2
Hence, upon receipt of above said information, the AO reopened the 
assessment of the year under consideration by issui ng notice u/s 148 of the 
Act on 30-03-2016.  The details of bogus accommodat ion entries alleged to 
have been received by the assessee are tabulated as  under:- 
S. 
No. Name of Party Amount (Rs.) 
1. M/s SantoshimaTradelinks Ltd (Formerly known as M/s 
Santoshima Lease Finance & Investment (India) Ltd. 
 32,50,000  
2. M/s Dolex Commercial Pvt. Ltd 7,00,000  
3. M/s B K Dyeing Printing Mills P. Ltd. 8,00,000  
4. M/s Shyam Alcohol & Chemicals Ltd. 35,00,000  
5. M/s Lunked Textiles P. Ltd. 3,00,000  
 Total 85,50,000  
 
3.   Before the AO, the assessee submitted copy of audited financial 
statements, confirmation letters obtained from the above said persons, 
Certificate of Incorporation of above said companie s, their object clause in 
the Memorandum of Association (MOA) and also copies  of returns of income 
filed by them.  Accordingly, it was contended that it has discharged the initial 
burden of proof placed upon it u/s 68 of the Act.  We notice that the AO has 
also issued notices u/s 133(6) of the Act to the ab ove said parties, but the 
assessment order is silent as to the receipt of rep lies to the said notices.   The 
AO also asked the assessee to produce the above sai d parties along with the 
documents that were furnished to him.  Since the as sessee could not 
produce the above said parties, the AO took the vie w that the assessee has 
not discharged the burden placed upon him u/s 68 of  the Act.  After 
discussing the results of investigation and stateme nt given by Shri Vipul 
Vidur Bhatt, the AO took the view that the above sa id share capital received 
by the assessee is liable to be assessed as unexpla ined income of the 
assessee u/s 68 of the Act.  Accordingly, he assess ed the above said amount 
of Rs.85,50,000/- as income of the assessee.Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 3
4.     In the appellate proceedings, the Ld CIT(A) confirmed the validity of 
reopening of assessment.  The assessee submitted th at the Statement given 
by Vipul Vidur Bhatt has been retracted by him and accordingly contended 
that the AO could not have relied upon the said sta tement for making the 
impugned addition.  Since the retraction was done a fter expiry of about 10 
months, the Ld CIT(A) held that the said retraction  was only an afterthought.  
With regard to the quantum of share capital receive d during the year, the 
assessee submitted that the AO has taken wrong amou nts, i.e., the assessee 
had received only Rs.60,00,000/- during the year un der consideration.  It 
was submitted that the assessee has received  
(a) Rs.22.50 lakhs only from M/s Santoshima Trade l inks Ltd as 
against Rs.32.50 lakhs noted down by the AO. 
 
(b)  Rs.22.50 lakhs only from M/s Shyam Alcohol & C hemicals Ltd as 
against Rs.35.00 lakhs noted down by the AO. 
 
(c)  Nil amount from M/s Lunkad Textiles P Ltd as a gainst Rs.3.00 
lakhs noted down by the AO. 
 
In effect, the assessee had received only Rs.60.00 lakhs from four persons as 
against Rs.85.50 lakhs noted down by the AO.  The L d CIT(A) accepted the 
mistake pointed out by the assessee and accordingly  granted relief of 
Rs.25.50 lakhs.  With regard to the remaining amoun t of Rs.60.00 lakhs, the 
Ld CIT(A) confirmed the addition by holding that th e preponderance of 
probabilities, in the instant case, turns against t he assessee. Aggrieved, the 
assessee has filed this appeal before the Tribunal.  
 
5.    Though the Ld A.R first argued on the validit y of reopening of 
assessment, yet we propose to deal with the issue o n merits.  The Ld A.R 
placed his reliance on the decision rendered by Mum bai bench of Tribunal in 
the case of M/s Moraj Realty P Ltd vs. DCIT (ITA No .708 & 709/Mum/2019 
dated 08-12-2020) and submitted that the above said  assessee had also 
received investments from the four companies, viz.,  M/s SantoshimaCharu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 4
Tradelinks Ltd, M/s Doled Commercial P Ltd, M/s Shy am Alcohol & 
Chemical Ltd and M/s B K Dyeing & Printing Mills P Ltd.  The investments 
so received by the above said assessee was also ass essed by the AO u/s 68 of 
the Act in its hands on identical reasoning, viz., they are only 
accommodation entries and in this regard the AO had  placed reliance on the 
statement given by Shri Vipul Vidur Bhatt.  The Tri bunal, on noticing that 
the above said assessee has furnished all the relev ant documents in order 
prove the cash credits, has deleted the addition ma de by the AO.  The 
Tribunal also observed as under with regard to the stand of the AO:- 
“17.  Moreover, except for relying on the statement o f VVB, the assessing 
officer has not done any enquiry himself except for r eferring to a 
notice issued under section 133(6) in AY 2009-10 only ….”   
 
The Tribunal has also noticed that the Statement gi ven by Shri Vipul Vidur 
Bhatt has been retracted by him later and hence the  Tribunal held that the 
AO could not have placed reliance exclusively on th e above said statement.  
The Tribunal also took support of the decisions ren dered by Hon’ble Bombay 
High Court in the case of CIT vs. Orchid Industries  P Ltd (ITA No.1433 of 
2014 dated 5.7.2017) and in CIT vs. Apeak Infotech (397 ITR 148).  Since the 
above said assessee has discharged the initial onus  placed upon it, the 
Tribunal finally held that the addition made u/s 68  of the Act is not justified 
and accordingly deleted the addition.  The Ld A.R s ubmitted that the above 
said decision of Tribunal squarely applies to the c ase of the assessee herein. 
 
6.    The Ld D.R, on the contrary, placed heavy rel iance on the decision 
rendered by Ld CIT(A).  The Ld D.R further relied u pon following case law in 
support of decision rendered by Ld CIT(A):- 
 (a) Sadik Sheik   (277 Taxman 594)(SC) 
 (b)  C.V. Ravi vs. ITO (281 Taxman 362)(SC) 
 (c)  PCIT vs. Oriental Power Cables Ltd (289 Taxma n 625)Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 5
7.     We heard the parties and perused the record.   We have gone through 
the case laws relied upon by Ld A.R.  In the case o f Sadik Sheik (supra), the 
assessee therein could not explain the transfer of cash from Bangalore to Goa 
and hence it was held that the source of deposit wa s not explained and the 
addition made u/s 68 of the Act was upheld.  In the  case of C.V. Ravi (supra), 
it was found that the assessee has failed to establ ish identity of creditor and 
genuineness of transactions.  In the case of Orient al Power Cables Ltd 
(supra), the Hon’ble Rajasthan High Court has confi rmed the deletion of 
addition made u/s 68 of the Act on the reasoning th at the opportunity to 
cross examine was not granted to the assessee.  The  SLP filed by the revenue 
against the above said decision of Hon’ble Rajastha n High Court has been 
admitted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court.  Thus, we no tice that the above said 
case laws relied upon by Ld D.R turns on the facts prevailing in those cases 
and hence we are of the view that the revenue canno t take support of above 
said decisions. 
 
8.      In the instant case, the addition has been made u/s 68 of the Act, 
wherein cash credits, which are essentially share c apital received by the 
assessee, have been added.  Sec. 68 enables assessm ent of such types of 
cash credits, if the assessee fails to prove the na ture and source of cash 
credits.  “Nature of cash credit” would mean that t he assessee is required to 
show that it is not of revenue nature.  In order to  prove cash credits, the 
assessee should discharge initial burden placed upo n his shoulders of the 
assessee u/s 68 of the Act, i.e., the assessee is r equired to prove three main 
ingredients, viz., the identity of the creditor, th e genuineness of the 
transactions and the credit worthiness of the credi tor. If the assessee 
discharges the initial burden, then the burden woul d shift to the shoulders of 
the assessing officer, i.e., it is the responsibili ty of the AO to disprove the 
claim of the assessee by bringing evidences on reco rd.Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 6
9.     We shall now examine the facts prevailing in  the instant case.  It is 
noticed that it is not the case of the AO that the assessee did not discharge 
the initial burden placed upon it with regard to th e four loans availed by it.  
The assessee has furnished all the details relating  to the four investors in 
order to discharge the burden placed upon it u/s 68  of the Act.  In fact, the 
AO went ahead and issued notices u/s 133(6) of the Act, but did not mention 
about the results of such notices issued by him. Ho wever, the AO has 
refused to admit that those cash credits as proved,  only for the reason that 
these companies have been categorized by the invest igation wing as 
accommodation entry providers.  
 
10. We noticed from the record that the assessee ha s filed following 
documents in order to discharge the burden placed u pon it under section 68 
of the Act :- 
a) Full set of audited annual account of share appl icants 
b)  Confirmation obtained from the share applicants  
c) Copy of income tax return acknowledgments filed by share 
applicants.  
 
d) Bank statements of the assessee company showing receipt of 
money  
 
e) Certificate of incorporation of share applicants  and extract of 
MOA showing object clause of the share applicants.  
 
Thus, in our view the assessee has discharged initi al burden placed upon it 
under section 68 of the Act by furnishing above sai d documents.  
 
11. The question as to whether the Assessing Office r could have made 
addition under section 68 of the Act by relying upo n the statement given by 
Shri Vipul Vidur Bhatt was examined by the Coordina te Bench in the case of 
M/s. Moraj Realty Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and it was held  as under :-Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 7
“17. Moreover, except for relying on the statement of VV B the Assessing 
Officer has not done any inquiry himself except for r eferring to a notice 
issued under section 133(6) in A.Y. 2009-10 only. T he learned counsel of 
the assessee has challenged the very veracity of this observation. He has 
submitted that assessee has asked for the copy of the said notice issued 
under RTI Act. In response it was replied that copies thereof are not 
available. Hence, this shows that even the so called inquiry by the 
Assessing Officer was done in case of only one part y for A.Y. 2009-10 and 
the veracity of which is itself in doubt.  
 
18. We find ourselves in agreement with the submissi ons of the 
assessee’s counsel. We note that except for the statem ent of the entry 
operator which was also retracted the addition made by  the authorities 
below is devoid of cogent material. In this regard we  note that in similar 
circumstances honourable Bombay High Court in the case  of CIT Vs. 
Orchid Industries Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 1433 of 2014 da ted 5.7.2017) held as 
under :- 
 
“The Assessing Officer added Rs.95 lakhs as income under Section 
68 of the Income Tax Act only on the ground that th e parties to whom 
the share certificates were issued and who had paid  the share 
money had not appeared before the Assessing Officer  and the 
summons could not be served on the addresses given as they were 
not traced and in respect of some of the parties wh o had appeared, it 
was observed that just before issuance of cheques, the amount was 
deposited in their account. 
 
The Tribunal has considered that the Assessee has p roduced on 
record the documents to establish the genuineness o f the party such 
as PAN of all the creditors along with the confirma tion, their bank 
statements showing payment of share application mon ey. It was also 
observed by the Tribunal that the Assessee has also  produced the 
entire record regarding issuance of shares i.e. all otment of shares to 
these parties, their share application forms, allot ment letters and 
share certificates, so also the books of account. T he balance sheet 
and profit and loss account of these persons disclo ses that these 
persons had sufficient funds in their accounts for investing in the 
shares of the Assessee. In view of these voluminous  documentary 
evidence, only because those persons had not appear ed before the 
Assessing Officer would not negate the case of the Assessee. The 
judgment in case of Gagandeep Infrastructure (P.) L td. (supra) would 
be applicable in the facts and circumstances of the  present case.”  
 
19. Similarly honourable Bombay High Court in the ca se of Gagandeep 
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has held as under :-  
 
We find that the proviso to Section 68 of the Act h as been introduced 
by the Finance Act 2012 with effect from 1st April,  2013. Thus it 
would be effective only from the Assessment Year 20 13-14 onwardsCharu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 8
and not for the subject Assessment Year. In fact, b efore the Tribunal, 
it was not even the case of the Revenue that Sectio n 68 of the Act as 
in force during the subject years has to be read/un derstood as 
though the proviso added subsequently effective onl y from 1st April, 
2013 was its normal meaning. The Parliament did not  introduce to 
proviso to Section 68 of the Act with retrospective  effect nor does the 
proviso so introduced states that it was introduced  “for removal of 
doubts” or that it is “declaratory”. Therefore it i s not open to give it 
retrospective effect, by proceeding on the basis th at the addition of 
the proviso to Section 68 of the Act is immaterial and does not change 
the interpretation of Section 68 of the Act both be fore and after the 
adding of the proviso. In any view of the matter th e three essential 
tests while confirming the pre proviso Section 68 o f the Act laid down 
by the Courts namely the genuineness of the transac tion, identity 
and the capacity of the investor have all been exam ined by the 
impugned order of the Tribunal and on facts it was found satisfied. 
(ii) Further it was a submission on behalf of the R evenue that such 
large amount of share premium gives rise to suspici on on the 
genuineness (identity) of the shareholders i.e. the y are bogus. The 
Apex Court in CIT v/s. Lovely Exports (P)Ltd. 317 I TR 218 in the 
context to the preamended Section 68 of the Act has  held that where 
the Revenue urges that the amount of share applicat ion money has 
been received from bogus shareholders then it is fo r the Income Tax 
Officer to proceed by reopening the assessment of s uch shareholders 
and assessing them to tax in accordance with law. I t does not entitle 
the Revenue to add the same to the assessee’s incom e as 
unexplained cash credit. 
 
20. Similarly Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case o f CIT Vs. Apeak 
Infotech (3971 ITR 148) has held as under :-  
 
“Amendment to Section 68 of the Act by the addition  of proviso 
thereto took place with effect from 1 st  April, 2013. Therefore, it was 
not applicable for the subject Assessment year 2012 -13, So for as the 
pre-amended Section 68 of the Act was concerned, th e same cannot 
be invoked in this case, as evidence was  led by the Respondents- 
Assessee before the Assessing Officer with regard t o identity, 
capacity of the investor as well as the genuineness  of the investment 
Therefore, admittedly, the Assessing Officer did no t invoke Section 68 
of the Act to bring the share premium to tax. Simil arly, the OT(A) an 
consideration of facts, found that Section 68 of th e Act cannot be 
invoked, in view of the above, it was likely that t he Revenue may 
have taken an informed decision not urge the issue of Section 68 of 
the Act before the Tribunal. High Court may also po int out that 
decision of High Court in Major Metals Ltd. vs. Uni on of India, 359 
ITR 450 proceeded on its own facts to uphold the invocation of 
Section 68 of the Act by the Settlement Commission.  In the above 
case, the Settlement Commission arrived at a findin g of fact that the 
subscribers re shares of the Assessee - Company were notCharu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 9
creditworthy in as much as they did not have financ ial standing 
which would enable them to make an investment of Rs . 
6,00,00,000/- at premium of Rs. 990 per share. It w as this finding of 
the fact arrived at by the Settlement Commission wh ich was not 
disturbed by High Court in its writ-jurisdiction. I n the present case 
the person who have subscribed to the share and pai d share 
premium have admittedly made statement on oath befo re the 
Assessing Officer as recorded by the Tribunal. No  finding in this case 
has been given by the Authorities that shareholder/ share applicants 
were unidentifiable or bogus. 
 
High Court find that the impugned order of the Trib unal upheld the 
view of the CIT(A) to hold that share premium is ca pital receipt and 
therefore, cannot be taxed as Income. This conclusi on was reached 
by the impugned order following the decision of thi s Court in 
Vodafone India Services Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and of th e Apex Court in 
M/s G.S. Homes and Hotel P. Ltd. (supra). In both t he above cases 
the Court has held that the amount received on issu e of share capital 
including premium are on capital account and cannot  be considered 
to be income. It was further pertinent to note that  the definition of 
income as provided under Section 2(24) of the Act a t the relevant time 
did not define as income any consideration received  for issue of 
share in excess of its fair market value. This came  into the statute 
only with effect from 1 st  April, 2013 and thus, would have, no 
application to the share premium received by the Re spondent - 
Assesses in the previous year relevant to the asses sment year 2012 - 
2013. Similarly, the amendment to Section 68 of the  Act by addition 
of proviso was made subsequent to previous year rel evant to the 
subject Assessment year 2012-13 and cannot be invok ed. It may be 
pointed out that High Court in Commissioner of Inco me Tax vs. M/s. 
Gangadeep Infrastructure (P) ltd (Income Tax Appeal  No. 1613 of 
2014 decided in 20 March 2017) has while refusing t o entertain a 
question with regard to Section 68 of the Act has h eld that the proviso 
to Section 68 of the Act introduced with effect fro m 1 April 2013 will 
not have retrospective effect and would be effectiv e only from 
Assessment year 2013-14. In view of the above, Ques tion No .B as 
proposed also does not give rise any substantial qu estion of law as it 
is an issue concluded by the decision of High Court  in M/s Vodafone 
India Services Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) and in the Apex Co urt in M/s G.S. 
Homes & Hotels P. Ltd. (supra). Thus not entertaine d. ” 
 
21. Accordingly in the background of aforesaid discu ssion and 
precedent in our considered opinion assessee has giv en all the necessary 
details required for establishment of identity creditwo rthiness and 
genuineness under extant provisions of section 68 of the IT Act. The onus 
cast upon the assessee stands discharged. The addition  by invoking 
amended provisions of section 68 of the Act which are  not applicable for 
the assessment year is not sustainable.”Charu Crimpweavers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
  
 10 
12. In our view, the above said decision rendered b y the co-ordinate bench 
supports the case of the assessee.  Accordingly, fo llowing the above said 
decision, we hold that the addition made by the Ass essing Officer under 
section 68 of the Act, in the facts and circumstanc es of the case, was not 
justified. Accordingly we set aside the order passe d by the learned CIT(A) on 
this issue and direct the Assessing Officer to dele te the addition under 
section 68 of the Act. 
 
13. Since we have deleted the addition on merits, w e do not find it 
necessary to address the legal issue relating to va lidity of reopening of the 
assessment as the same has become academic in natur e. 
 
14. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed.    
 
 Pronounced in the open court on 06.03.2023. 
 
                            Sd/-       Sd/-   
               (RAHUL CHAUDHARY)                           (B.R. BASAKARAN) 
                   Judicial Member                                    Accountant Member 
 
Mumbai; Dated : 06/03/2023                                                
 
Copy of the Order forwarded  to  :  
  
1.  The Appellant 
2.  The Respondent 
3.  The CIT(A) 
4.  CIT 
5.  DR, ITAT, Mumbai 
6.  Guard File.  
         
BY ORDER, 
 //True Copy// 
      
    (Assistant Registrar) 
PS                 ITAT, Mumbai