आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण , /uni0905/uni0939/uni092E/uni0926/uni093E/uni092C/uni093E/uni0926/uni0020/g7008/uni092F/uni093E/uni092F/uni092A/uni0940/uni0920 /uni0905/uni0939/uni092E/uni0926/uni093E/uni092C/uni093E/uni0926/uni0020/g7008/uni092F/uni093E/uni092F/uni092A/uni0940/uni0920 /uni0905/uni0939/uni092E/uni0926/uni093E/uni092C/uni093E/uni0926/uni0020/g7008/uni092F/uni093E/uni092F/uni092A/uni0940/uni0920 /uni0905/uni0939/uni092E/uni0926/uni093E/uni092C/uni093E/uni0926/uni0020/g7008/uni092F/uni093E/uni092F/uni092A/uni0940/uni0920  ‘C’    अहमदाबाद। अहमदाबाद। अहमदाबाद। अहमदाबाद।  
IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
 “C” BENCH, AHMEDABAD 
  
] 
] 
 
 
 
 
 
BEFORE SMT.ANNAPURNA GUPTA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
AND 
SHRI T.R. SENTHIL KUMAR, JUDICIAL MEMBER 
 
ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 
WITH 
Cross Objection No.191/Ahd/2019 
Assessment Year :2016-17  
 
 
DCIT, Cir.4(1)(2) 
Ahmedabad. 
  
Vs  Zen Matrix P Ltd. 
8th  Floor, The Chambers 
Opp: Gurudwara 
S.G. Highway 
Ahmedabad. 
PAN : AAACA 1406 C 
 
(Applicant )  (Responent ) 
 
 
Assesseeby   :  Shri S.N. Soparkar, Sr.Advocate& 
Shri Parin Shah, AR  
Revenue  by :  Shri A.P. Singh, CIT  
 
/uni0938/uni0941/uni0928/uni0935/uni093E/uni0908 /uni0915/glyph566 /uni0924/uni093E/uni0930/glyph548/uni0916 /Date of Hearing           :    06/03/2023 
/uni0918/uni094B/uni0937/uni0923/uni093E /uni0915/glyph566 /uni0924/uni093E/uni0930/glyph548/uni0916 /Date of Pronouncement:    06/03/2023 
 
/uni0906/uni0926/uni0947/uni0936/ O R D E R  
 
PER ANNAPURNA GUPTA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
 
These are Revenue’s appeal and the assessee’s Cross- Objection 
against order passed by the Ld.Commissioner of Income -
Tax(Appeals)-8, Ahmedabad (hereinafter referred to a s “ld.CIT(A)”) 
dated 13.6.2019 under section 250(6) of the Income Tax  Act, 1961 
("the Act" for short) pertaining to Assessment Year  2016 -17. 
 
2. We have heard both the parties.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
2 
 
3. The issues arising before us are in the backdrop of business 
carried out by the assessee-company.  The assessee i s in the 
business of real-estate developer/lending properties/i nvestment in 
real-estate/sale of purchase of real estate property.   As per object 
clause of the Memorandum of Association of the company , objects of 
the assessee-company are primarily to carry on busin ess as 
infrastructure developers ofall classes and kinds of construction 
activities and carrying on business of purchase/sale of property or 
acquiring/leasingout any property on rent.  The objec t clause as per 
the Memorandum of the company reproduced at page no.3 of the 
CIT(A)’s order as under: 
 
“/. To carry on the business of as infrastructure d evelopers, contractors, 
builders and to carry on all classes and kinds of c onstruction activities 
including earthen dams, massonery dams, canal earth  work, lining, 
structures, road work, buildings bridges, godowns, workshops, commercial 
complex, : residential' colonies and industrial est ate and industrial 
construction and to construct, execute, carry out, improve, work, develop, 
administer or control of works and conveniences of all kinds including ports, 
docks, harbour, piers, wharves, canals, dams, reser voirs, embankments, 
irrigation, reclamation, improvement, sewage, drain age, sanitary, factory 
sheds, hotels, warehouses, markets, malls, special economic zones and to 
execute turnkey projects including structural desig n, supervision and 
construction of such projects and to carry on busin ess of manufacturing and 
trading of ready mix and other cement based product s. 
 
2. To carry on business to purchase or acquire any property on lease or rent 
and sell or dispose off or to lease or give on rent  any property and to act as 
estate agent / broker agent/ consultant on brokerag e or commission basis. 
 
4. In the light of objects of the assessee-company, i t had 
purchased several properties which were classified i n its financial 
statement into two categories; “inventories” and “fixed  assets”.  The 
assessee had returned business income on the transact ion of 
purchase and sale of the property and rental income u nder the head 
“income from house property”on property rented out o r leased.  The 
issues which arose in assessment framed were as foll ows:ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
3 
 
i) The AO noted that with respect to some  properties 
classified as “fixed assets” and inventories , the ass essee 
had not returned rental income on the same, though, it 
was required to return deemed rental income as per 
section 23 of the Act.  Therefore, addition was made o f 
Rs.1,59,30,256/- on account of deemed rental income o f 
properties as per section 23 of the Act. The same was 
computed at the rate of 8% of the investment made in 
properties and standard deduction at the rate of 30% was  
allowed against the same.   
ii) Interest expenditure incurred for acquiring property as 
per section 24 of the Act was  disallowed by the AO b oth 
relating to that actually claimed by the assessee 
amounting to Rs.1,47,03,909/-  as also relating to cl aim 
of interest expenditure against the deemed rental income  
on property held as fixed assets by the assessee as 
computed by the AO, thus effecting a disallowance of 
interest expenditure of Rs.1,47,03,909/- claimed by th e 
assessee under section 24 while computing its income 
from house property.  
 
iii) With respect totheproperties held as fixed assets, the AO 
noted that no depreciation was claimed on the same, he 
therefore inferred that they were not put to use for the 
purpose of business of the assessee.  Further taking n ote 
of the fact that the assessee had incurred huge interest 
expenses of Rs.6,79,98,117/- out of which 
Rs.1,47,03,908/- was attributed to earning rental income  
and noting that the inventory of the assessee in the 
property was Rs.7,36,92,328/- while borrowings on 
which interest had been claimed by the assessee wasITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
4 
 
Rs.54,97,47,328/-, the AO held the borrowing had been  
utilized for making investment in fixed assets, which 
were not used for the purpose of business of the 
assessee, and therefore, to that extent the assessee’s 
claim of interest expenditure needed to be disallowed a s 
not incurred for the purpose of business of the asses see 
as per section 37(1) of the Act.  Accordingly, the 
disallowance of interest expenses in relation to this f ixed 
assets amounting to Rs.4,83,25,510/- was made by the 
AO.  Since the entire interest expenses were disallowed  
u/s.36(1)(iii) of the Act, the disallowance of interes t 
expenses u/s.24 of the Act against deemed rental income  
was not made separately. 
 
5. Other than the above, the AO also noted that the assesse ehad 
earned tax exempt income in the form of agricultural i ncome 
amounting to Rs.14.00 lakhs having made investment of  Rs.20.76 
crores in plots of land and earned the income on the  same.  He 
accordingly made disallowance of expenses incurred for the purpose 
of earning exempt income as per provisions of section  14A of the Act 
by invoking Rule 8D for computing the same and accord ingly 
disallowed an amount of Rs.50,08,553/- being attributab le to 
interest expenses incurred for the purposeof earning e xempt income 
and Rs.17,56,014/- being administrative expenses incu rred by the 
said purpose.  Thus, in all, total disallowance of Rs .67,64,567/- was 
made u/s 14A of the Act.   
 
6. The disallowance made under section 14A was also adjusted 
for arriving at the book profits of the assessee, addin g the same to 
the book profits, for the purpose of computing taxes tobe  paid as per 
provision of section 115JB of the Act.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
5 
 
 
7. The matter was carried in appeal before the ld.CIT (A) who 
upheld in principle the additionmade on account of dee med rental 
income by the AO, but at the same time,  held that provisi ons of 
section 23 were not applicable to the stock-in-trade and accordingly 
directed deletion of addition made of  deemed rental i ncome 
computed on properties held as inventory by the assesse e. 
 
8. As for claim of interest expenses incurred for the  purpose of 
earning rental income as per section 24 of the Act, thel d.CIT(A) 
found that the AO had not appreciated the facts of the ca se correctly 
He noted that the AO had  found that no interest had been paid for 
acquiring the properties, but on the other hand, borro wings had 
been made against the properties kept as security.  The  assessee 
produced certain evidences before the Ld.CIT(A) showi ng that 
borrowings had been made for acquiring properties.  Appreciating 
the same, the ld.CIT(A) held that as per provision of s ection 24 of the 
Act, the assessee is entitled to claim interest expenses i ncurred on 
borrowing made for acquiring properties on which re ntal income was 
liable to tax and he directed the AO to reconsider the evidences 
produced by the assessee, and allow interest expense a s per law 
after verifying the same. 
 
9. With regard to disallowance of interest expenses ma deunder 
section 36(1)(iii) of the Act, the ld.CIT(A) noted that the  business of 
the assessee was purchase and sale of properties, and  letting out 
property on land only.  All properties thereforehe he ld had been 
acquired for the said purpose, whether classified as  fixed assets or 
classified as inventory.  He also noted, the assessee itself had 
admitted that certain properties were not acquired by it  for either of 
such business purposes and the interest expenses incur red inITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
6 
 
relation to the same admittedly was Rs.1,27,99,143/-.  The ld.CIT(A) 
held that since the AO had made disallowance of interes t pertaining 
to borrowings utilized for acquiring properties class ified as business 
assets, and these fixed assets had been considered for  taxing the 
deemed rent income thereon as per section 23(a) of the  Act, therefore 
the assessee was entitled to deduction of interest expense s against 
the same, as per section 24 of the Act, and the disall owance of 
interest expenses, if any was to be restricted only to  the extent of 
Rs.1,27,99,143/- incurred for acquiring property no t used for either 
of the businesses of the assessee.  Since the issue of  claim of 
interest expenses under section 24 of the Act was restor ed back to 
the AO, the AO was directed to examine, accordingly, e ntire claim of 
interest expensesof the assessee, in relation to income  from house 
property only returned by the assessee, and also in r elation to 
deemed rental income of property held as fixed assets  as computed 
by the Department.   
 
10. In relation to disallowance made under section 14 A of the Act 
of the interest and administrative expenses, the ld.CIT(A ) fairly 
agreed with theAO that it was fit case for making disallo wance under 
section 14A of the Act, but at the same time, he restricte d the same 
to the extent of exempt income earned by the assessee am ounting to 
Rs.14 lakhs.  Further, he held that no adjustment on acc ount of 
disallowance of expenses made under section 14A of th e Act was to 
be made while computing the book profit of the assesse e under 
section 115JB of the Act.  
 
11. As a result of the above, both the assessee and the  Revenue 
have come in appeal before us; with the Revenue filin g the appeal 
against deletion of disallowance of interest expenses u nder section 
36(1)(iii) of the Act, deletion of deemed rental income  with respect toITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
7 
 
the property held as stock-in-trade/inventory, restricti on of 
disallowance of expenses under section 14A of the Act to the extent 
of exempt income earned and deletion of adjustment made  to the 
book profits of the assessee on account of disallowan ce made under 
section 14A of the Act.   
 
 The grounds raised by the Revenue are as under: 
 
i)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs. 3,55,26,367/- made on account of di sallowance of 
interest u/s.36(i)(iii) of the Act. 
 
ii)  That the Ld. GIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs 28,85,598/- made on account of deeme d rent on stock 
in trade of Rs. 5,15,28,528/-. 
 
iii)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs 53,64,567/- made u/s. 14A rwr 8D of the Act. 
 
iv)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition to book profit u/s.115JB of the Act on acc ount of 
disallowance of Rs. 67,64,567/~ made u/s. 14A of th e Act. 
 
12. On the other hand, the assessee has filed cross-ob jection 
agitating confirmation of addition made on account of d eemed rental 
income on property held as fixed assets by the assess ee, and against 
direction of the ld.CIT(A) to verify the details of inter est expenses for 
the purpose of claiming the same as per section 24 of  the Act and 
allow income from house property.  The grounds rais ed by the 
assessee are as under: 
 
“1. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts confirmin g invocation of Sec. 22 & 
23 of the Act by AO to make addition of deemed rent al income on the 
properties held as fixed assets under the head 'Inc ome from House Property' 
ignoring the fact that the properties were held for  real estate development 
business of the appellant. 
 
2. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts to confirm  application of provisions 
of sec. 23(a) of the Act by AO without appreciating  the contention that 
deeming provisions would not be applicable to renta l income on fixed assets 
but would be assessed as business income when the a ppellant was dealing 
in real estate business.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
8 
 
3. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts to hold th at properties not held as 
stock in trade but fixed assets were clearly in the  nature of investments on 
which deeming provisions of Sec. 23(a) were applica ble. 
 
4. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts directing AO to verify details of 
interest expense incurred for acquisition of the pr operties despite being 
satisfied and holding that entire loan was taken fo r business purpose more 
specifically for the acquisition of properties.” 
 
13. As narrated above, the entire case of the assessee and the 
issues arising there from begin from properties held  as fixed assets 
being considered for taxing the deemed rental income earned 
thereon as per provisions of section 23 of the Act, w ith interest 
expenses incurred against the income earned by the ass essee being 
denied to the assessee, as per section 24 of the Act and  36(1)(iii) of 
theAct.In our view it is pertinent first to deal with groun d no.1 -3 
ofthe CO of the assessee wherein challenge is to the or der of 
theld.CIT(A) confirming the addition made on account of  deemed 
rental income on property held as fixed assets by the assessee.  
 
CO No.191/Ahd/2019 : (Assessee)  
 
Ground No.1 - 2  
 
1. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts confirming  invocation of Sec. 22 & 
23 of the Act by AO to make addition of deemed rent al income on the 
properties held as fixed assets under the head 'Inc ome from House Property' 
ignoring the fact that the properties were held for  real estate development 
business of the appellant. 
 
2. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts to confirm  application of provisions 
of sec. 23(a) of the Act by AO without appreciating  the contention that 
deeming provisions would not be applicable to renta l income on fixed assets 
but would be assessed as business income when the a ppellant was dealing 
in real estate business. 
 
3. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts to hold th at properties not held as 
stock in trade but fixed assets were clearly in the  nature of investments on 
which deeming provisions of Sec. 23(a) were applica ble. 
 
 
14. Though the facts relating to the issue have been dealt with 
briefly by us,as above, it is pertinent to bring out re levant facts 
relating to the issue in detail.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
9 
 
 
15. During  assessment proceedings, the AO noted from the details 
filed before him that the assessee had not offered dee med rental 
income on constructed properties as per the provision o f section 22 
read with section 23 of the Act on the following properti es: 
 
i) Property shown as inventory  : Rs.5,15,28,528/- 
ii) Property shown as fixed assets : Rs.23,87,09,477/- 
 
16. The assessee was show-caused as to why deemed r ental income 
should not be computed and brought to tax vis-à-vis  aforestated 
properties.  The assessee contended that being in t he business of buying 
and selling of immovable properties, plots, buildin g etc.,these were 
business assets of the assessee,and hence were outs ide the purview of 
provision of section 22 of the Act for the purpose of computing income 
from house property.  The assessee further contende d that it had put best 
efforts to let the property till the same were sold , but could not get 
suitable tenants for the same, therefore, as per se ction 23(i) of the Act, 
annual letting value (ALV) of these was taken as NI L.  The AO was not 
convinced with reply of the assessee, and noted tha t as per provisions of 
section 22 all properties consisting of land & buil ding appurtenant thereto 
of which the assessee is the owner were covered und er the purview of 
section 22 of the Act for determining their ALV to be brought to tax under 
the head income from house property.  He noted that  all the conditions as 
required under section 22 were fulfilled in the cas e of the properties noted 
by him being held as inventory and fixed assets, an d since the assessee 
had not returned any ALV of the same, the deemed an nual value with 
respect to these properties had to be determined in  accordance with 
section 22 of the Act.  He rejected all the content ions of the assessee 
dealing with the same at para 6.2 as under: 
 
“6.2 The reply of the assessee is duly considered h owever the same is not found 
acceptable (except for the plot of land where no de emed rental income is required to 
be offered) for reasons discussed as under. Section  22 of the Income Tax is as 
follows:ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
10  
 
Section22  
 
22. The annual value of property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant 
thereto which the assessee is the owner, other that  such portions of such property 
as he may occupy for the purposes of any business o r profession carried on by him 
the profits of which are chargeable to Income-Tax, shall be chargeable to income-tax 
under the head 'Income From House Property 
 
(i)    The above section clearly specifies 'propert y consisting of any building or land 
appurtenant' thereto of which assessee is the owner '. The assessee is owner of the 
said property and the ownership rests with the asse ssee only; till the agreement of 
sale is .executed.  
 
ii)        The basic features/requirements for char geability of house property are:- 
a)   Property should consists of any building or la nd appurtenant thereto. 
b) Assessee should be the owner and  
c)   The property should not be occupied/used for t he purpose of carrying on any 
business or profession whose profits are chargeable  to Income tax. 
 
In the case of the assessee all the conditions are satisfied for chargeability of 
income form house property. The section clearly mak es out for property consisting of 
any building or lands appurtenant thereto of which assessee is owner. Hence, what 
is important is the ownership of the property of an y building or land appurtenant 
thereto. The assessee has itself stated that no dep reciation is claimed on the fixed 
assets. No depreciation is claimed because the asse ts are not used for the purpose 
of business. Therefore the assessee is not using th e said property for the purpose of 
carrying on business or profession. The section doe s not differentiate what the 
assessee intends to do with the property. As long a s the property is owned by the 
assessee and not used by it for carrying on the bus iness or profession, the 
provisions of the section shall apply. 
 
iii) As per section 22 of the Act, the annual value  of building or land appurtenant 
thereto has to be taxed under the head 'Income From  House Property. The only 
condition required to tax the property consisting o f building is; that the 
person/entity should be the owner of property and t he exception from this taxation 
is only available when the premises is occupied for  business purposes. The 
assessee has stated that the section 22 of the I.T Act does not apply to it as the 
assessee is in the business of real estate. 
 
It is worthwhile to note that the section 22 of the  I.T Act is the charging section for 
Income from House property. The section does not di fferentiate whether the property 
belongs to an individual/firm/company etc. and also  does not differentiate the 
nature of business carried on by the assessee. Any person owning any property 
which is not used for the purpose of carrying on bu siness shall have to comply with 
the provisions of this section. Therefore, though t he assessee is in real estate 
business, the properties owned by him as reflected in the schedule to Fixed Assets 
and inventory held by it are to be charged under th e head income from house 
property as assessee is not carrying any business f rom the said properties.   
 
iv) The assessee has also argued that for the purpo se of determining ALVu/s 23(1) 
of the Act, the sub clause (c) shall be applicable as the company had intended to let 
the property until it is sold. The above argument o f the assessee is also not tenable 
as the sub - clause (c) of section 23(1) deals with  providing of vacancy allowance 
only when the property is 'actually let out' and no t based on the intention of letting 
out. 
 
v) The levy of tax in the case of house property is  not premised or dependent on the 
fact that whether the assessee carries on business as land lord but on the 
ownership. The incidence of charge is because of th e fact of ownership. In the case 
here, the ownership lies with the assessee company.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
11  
 
 
yi) The assessee has stated that deeming provisions  will not apply to the assessee 
as it is in the business of real estate. However, t his cannot be accepted as there is 
no reasoning or logic given by assessee to support its stand. Also no provisions of 
the IT Act provide for non-applicability of notiona l rent if the assessee is in the 
business of real estate.” 
 
 
17. Thereafter, the AO held that for determining th e ALV of the property, 
8% of investment made in the property is the approp riate rate, and 
accordingly, determined the ALV of 22 properties of  the assessee listed in 
at page no.13 of the order at Rs.2,27,57,509/-.  He  thereafter allowed 30% 
deduction thereon as per provision of section 22 wh ich came to 
Rs.68,27,253/- and accordingly calculated income fr om house property at 
Rs.1,59,30,256/-. 
 
18. The ld.CIT(A) upheld order of the AO, but at th e same time held that 
determination of ALV by the AO at 8% of the investm ent made by the 
assessee was very high and without any basis.  Taki ng note of the decision 
of the ITAT, Ahmedabad Bench in the case of Shanti Exports P.Ltd., ITA 
No.640/Ahd/2018 wherein the provision relating to t he estimation of rent 
on vacant property as envisaged in the provisions o f section 23 of the Act 
was discussed, the ld.CIT(A) directed the AO to asc ertain fair market rent 
of the properties under consideration on the basis of rent received in the 
same area in which the present property is situated , and adopt such rent 
as deemed income from the house property, on the pr operty held as fixed 
assets.   
 
19. With respect to the property held as stock-in-t rade, theld.CIT(A) 
held that deemed rental income under section 23 can not be computed on 
property held as stock in-trade relying upon the ju dgment of Hon’ble 
jurisdictional High Court in the case of Neha Build ers, (2008) 296 ITR 661 
and on the decision of the ld.CIT(A) in the case of  assessee itself in the 
preceding for assessment years Asst.Year 2014-15 an d 2015-16.  The 
order of the ld.CIT(A) at para 7.3 to 7.3.2 are as under: 
 
“7.3 The income from House property is charged to t ax as per the provisions 
of Part- 0 of Chapter -IV of the Act. As per the pr ovisions of section 22 the 
Annual value of a property consisting of buildings or lands appurtenantITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
12  
 
thereto owned by the assessee except which are occu pied for t he purposes 
of any business or profession are chargeable to tax  under the head of 
income "income from house property" . The provision  of section 22 of the Act 
reads as under: 
 
"Income from house property.  
 
22  .   The  annual  value  of property consisting  of any buildings or lands 
appurtenant thereto of which the assessee is the ow ner,  other than such 
portions of such property as he may occupy for the purposes of any 
business or profession carried on by him the profit s of which are chargeable 
to income-tax, shall be  chargeable  to income-tax  under the  head  "Income  
from  houseproperty” The manner of determining the income from house 
property is prescribed in section 23 of the Act whi ch, reads as under:  
 
"[Annual value how determined. 
 
23. (1) For the purposes of section 22, the annual value of any property 
shall be deemed to be—  
 
(a)   the sum for which the property might reasonab ly be expected to let from  
year; or  
(b). where the property or any part of the property  is let and the actual rent 
received or receivable by the owner in respect ther eof is in excess of the sum 
referred to in clause (a), the amount so received o r receivable; or 
 
(c). where the property or any part of the property  is let and was vacant 
during the whole or any part of the previous year a nd owing to such 
vacancy the actual rent received or receivable by t he owner in respect 
thereof is less than the sum referred to in clause (a), the amount so received 
or receivable :  
 
Provided that the taxes levied by any local authori ty in respect of the 
property shall be deducted (irrespective of the pre vious year in which the 
liability to pay     . such taxes was incurred by t he owner according to the 
method of accounting regularly employed by him) in determining the annual 
value of the property of that previous year in whic h such taxes are actually 
paid by him. 
 
Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (b) or clau se (c) of this sub-section, 
the amount of actual rent received or receivable by  the owner shall, not 
include, subject to such rules as may be made in th is behalf, the amount of 
rent which the owner cannot realise.  
 
(2) Where the property consists of a house or part of a house which— 
 
(a)   is in the occupation of the owner for the pur poses of his own residence; 
or 
 
(b)   cannot actually be occupied by the owner by r eason of the fact that 
owing to his employment, business or profession car ried on at any other 
place, he has to reside at that other place in a bu ilding not belonging to him, 
the annual value of such house or part of the house  shall be taken to be nil.       
 
(3) The provisions of sub-section (2) shall not app ly if—ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
13  
 
 
(a)   the house or part of the house is actually le t during the whole or any 
part of the previous year; or     
 
(b)  any other benefit therefrom is derived by the owner.  
 
(4) Where the property referred to in sub-section ( 2) consists of more than 
[one house] –   
 
(a)   the provisions of that sub-section shall appl y only in respect of [one] of 
such houses, which the assessee may, at his option,  specify in this behalf; 
 
(b)   the annual value of the house or houses, [oth er than the house] in 
respect of the assessee has exercised an option und er clause  (a),   shall 
bedetermined under sub-section (1) as if such house  or houses had been let] 
[(5) Where the property consisting of any building or land appurtenant 
thereto is held as stock-in-trade and the property or any part of the property 
is not let during the whole or any part of the prev ious year, the annual value 
of such property or part of the property, for the p eriod up to [one year] from 
the end of the financial year in which the certific ate of completion of 
construction of the property is obtained from the c ompetent authority, shall 
be taken to be nil. 
 
Clause 5 of section 23 was inserted by Finance Act,   2017w.e.f. 
01.04.2018.   
 
7.3.1 A bare perusal of the provision of section 23 (a) would make it clear 
that even if the property is not actually let out t he rental income has to be 
assessed at a sum for which the property might reas onably expected to be 
let out. Hence, AO has rightly added the deemed ren tal value to the total 
income on the properties which are not held by the appellant for the purpose 
of its business. The provisions of section 23(a) ar e clearly applicable to the 
properties which are not held as stock in trade. Th ey are clearly in the 
nature of investments. Infact, appellant has also n ot disputed the facts that 
the properties are held as Fixed Assets. In view of  these facts and legal 
position the action of AO attributing deemed rental  income on these 
properties is confirmed. However , I find that AO h as not given any basis on 
which 8% of the value of the properties is taken as  deemed income from 
house property u/s,23 of the Act. In this regard it  is useful, to refer to the 
judgment of Hon'ble ITAT Ahmedabad in the case of S hanti Exports Pvt. Ltd. 
ITA No.640/Ahd/2018 dated 07.01.2019 for guidance w herein the Hon'ble 
ITAT Ahmedabad have discussed the provisions relati ng to estimation of 
rent on vacant properties as envisaged by the provi sions of section 23 of the 
Act. The Hon'ble ITAT held as below: 
 
10.3.- In the instant case, the Revenue alleges tha t the actual rent 
received/receivable is less than the reasonable exp ected rent. Thus 
the controversy revolves what should be the reasona ble expected 
rent The law to determine the reasonable expected r ent provides a 
certain basis as detailed under: 
 
i)   Actual rent received or receivable:- Actual re nt received/receivable 
is an important factor in determining the annual va lue of a property.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
14  
 
ii) Municipal Value:- This is the value as determin ed by the Municipal 
authorities for levying Municipal taxes on house pr operty. Municipal 
authorities normally charge house tax/Municipal tax es on the basis 
of annual letting value of such house property. 
 
iii)     Fair rent of the property:- Fair rent is t he rent which a similar 
property can fetch in the same or similar locality if it is let out for a 
year. The DVO can also find out such value:  
 
iv) Standard Rent:- The standard rent is fixed unde r the Rent Control 
Act. If the standard rent has been fixed for any pr operty under the 
Rent Control    
 
7.3.2 In the case at hand AO has not specified any basis of adopting the 
deemed rental value of the @8% of the value of the property which is not 
correct and without any authority of law. According ly, AO is directed to 
ascertain the fair market rent of the properties un der consideration on the 
basis of the rentals received by similar properties  in the area in which these 
properties are located as prescribed by Hon'ble ITA T in the case of Shanti 
Exports (supra) and adopt such rate of rent as deem ed income from house 
property on the properties held as Fixed Assets (ex cept in the case of on 
property namely Shakti 404- 4th Floor for which AO has taken the deemed 
rental of Rs.21,00,000/- on the basis of the rental  income received by the 
appellant on the similar property). 
 
Ld. AR has brought to my notice that though AO has mentioned all the 
properties on which deemed rent is added as fixed a ssets however, AO has 
also computed the deemed rental income on the stock  in trade 
ofRs.7,36,92,078/-. I find that in the balance shee t the inventories of 
Rs.7,36,92,078/- are reflected also some of the pro perties on which the 
deemed income is attributed were also part of such properties in the 
A.Y.2015-16 wherein such deemed income was attribut ed to stock in trade 
also. AO has also in the impugned assessment order in para 5.1 mentioned 
the fact that appellant has held properties under t he head inventories. 
Undersigned have in A.Y.2014-15 & 2015-16 in the ap pellant's case held 
inter-alia relying upon the judgment of Hon'ble jur isdiction al High Court in 
the case of Neha Builders (2008) 296 ITR 661 that d eemed rental income 
u/s.23 of the Act cannot be computed on the propert ies held as stock in 
trade. For the same reasons AO is directed to verif y and if the properties on 
which deemed rental income is attributed are held b y the appellant in stock 
in trade exclude such properties from the purview o f the provisions of 
section 23 of the Act. The additions made to this e xtent are deleted.” 
 
20. Before us the ld. Counsel for the assessee reit erated the contentions 
made before the AO that no deemed rental income was  to be computed on 
the properties held as fixed assets by the assessee  inview of the fact that 
there were held by him in the course of business, a nd alternatively they 
were kept vacant during the year.   
 
21. The ld.DR on the other hand, reliedon the order  of the AO/ld.CIT(A).ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
15  
 
 
22. Wehave heard both the parties and have gone thr ough orders of the 
authoritiesbelow.  The issue before us relates to t reating the property of 
the assessee held as fixed assets, as being eligibl e for being subjected to 
tax under section 22 of the Act, on the deemed rent al income earned 
thereon as per the provisions of said section. 
 
23. We have perused the orders of the authorities b elow, and having 
considered the contentions of theld. Counsel for th e assessee before us, 
we see no reason to interfere in orders of the Reve nue authorities holding 
the property held as fixed assets tobe eligible for  taxation of deemed rental 
income from there under section 22 of the Act.  On going through order of 
the AO, we find that he has rightly interpreted the  provision of section 22 
and applied it to the facts of the present case.  T he AO has rightly referred 
to provisionof section 22 as specifying that proper ty consisting of any 
building or land appurtenant thereto of which the a ssessee is the 
owner,other than the property which he occupies for  the purpose of any 
business or profession, to be chargeable to tax und er the head income 
from house property.  The AO has noted that all the  properties, held as 
fixed assets by the assessee, who is in the busines s of real estate, are 
eligible for taxing their ALV as per section 22 of the Act, since the assessee 
is not carrying out any business from these propert ies.  The ld.counsel for 
the assessee has been unable to controvert this fin ding of the authorities 
below.  Therefore, the arguments of the ld.counsel for the assessee that 
the properties held by it as fixed assets were for the purpose of business of 
the assessee, and their ALV was to be excluded for taxation under section 
22 of the Act, is rejected as untenable in law. 
 
24. The next contention of the ld.counsel for the a ssessee that since the 
properties were vacant throughout the year, the ass essee is entitled to 
vacancy allowance, and accordingly, the ALV of the property would 
therefore be NIL.  The AO, we find, has rejected th is contention of the 
assessee noting that the sub-clause(c) of sub-secti on (1) of section 23 
which deals with providing vacancy allowance  allow s the same only whenITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
16  
 
the property is ‘actually let out’ and not based on  the intention of letting 
out.  The ld.counsel for the assessee wasunable to controvert this finding 
of the AO.  
Inview of the same, this contention of the ld.cousn el for the assessee 
is also rejected. 
 
25. As a result, we see no reason to interfere in t he order of the ld.CIT(A) 
holding that the property held as fixed assets qual ified for the ALV thereon 
being subjected to tax as income from house propert y as per the 
provisions of section 22 of the Act. 
 
26. Ground No.1 to 3 of the assessee’s  CO is dismi ssed. 
 
27. Ground No.4 of the CO of the assessee is agains t the direction of 
theld.CIT(A) to verify whether the interest paid by  the assessee qualified 
for deduction against the ALV of the properties in terms of section 24 of 
the Act while computing the income from house prope rty. 
 
4. Ld. CIT (A) erred in law and on facts directing AO to verify details of 
interest expense incurred for acquisition of the pr operties despite being 
satisfied and holding that entire loan was taken fo r business purpose more 
specifically for the acquisition of properties.” 
 
 
28. The AO had noted, as per the provisions of sect ion 24 of the Act, 
interest paid on borrowings made for acquiring prop erties which were 
liable to tax under section 22 of the Act, qualifie d for deduction.  He 
further noted that as per details submitted by the assessee, the interest 
paid by the assessee was not on borrowings made for  acquiring properties, 
but were in fact paid on loan taken against these p roperties kept as 
security, and therefore, heheld that the interest p aid did not qualify for 
deduction under section 24 of the Act.  Accordingly , the AO denied 
deduction of any interest under section 24 of the A ct to the assessee, 
which included theinterest actually claimed by the assessee while 
computing its income from house-property amounting to Rs.1,47,03,903/- 
and interest deduction claimed by the assessee on d eemed rental income 
computed by theAO on properties held as fixed asset s by the assessee.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
17  
 
The ld.CIT(A) however noted that the AO did not giv e any show cause 
notice to the assessee while giving a finding of fa ct that the interest 
expenses were found to be not in relation to borrow ing made for acquiring 
properties.  He accordingly restored the issue to t he AO to verify all the 
facts, and there after allow the assessee’s claim o f interest under 
section24 of the Act in accordance with law.  His f inding at para 7.6 of the 
order is as under: 
 
“7.6 As per AO appellant was asked to provide the d etails of loans taken for 
purchase of the impugned properties however, appell ant had provided the 
details of loan taken against the properties. Appel lant in the course of 
appellate proceedings contended that the entire ass ets of the appellant are 
held only in the form of properties and they had pr ovided the details of the 
funds borrowed for acquisition of the properties ho wever, the table provided 
by the AO in the notice u/s.142(1) was misunderstoo d and by mistake the 
details of loan taken was against the properties we re furnished to the AO. 
Appellant furnished the ledger account copy of the loans obtained from all 
the properties including the land , buildings, shop s, bungalows etc., majority 
of the properties are financed by the related parti es e.g. Zen Tradelink Pvt. 
Ltd., MukeshMajithia, Nikhil Majithia, Jay Majithia , RashminMajithia. 
Appellant further submitted that since, all the pro perties except the vacant 
land have been subjected to tax either as returned income by the appellant 
or by way of additions made by the AO, and in view of the fact that 
appellant has only one line of business i.e. dealin g in real estate the entire 
interest has to be allowed Appellant further conten ded that though for this 
query they had given the details of interest agains t property by mistake but 
the details of entire interest claimed were furnish ed to the AO and no part of 
the interest was found to have been laid out for an y other purpose except 
acquisition of properties. Appellant further submit ted that AO has not given 
any specific show cause notice before treating the interest as not relatable 
to the properties on which rental income has been r eturned and assessed to 
allow the appellant to clear the confusion. I find that in para 5 of the 
impugned assessment order while disallowing the int erest of 
Rs.4,83,25,510/- also AO has discussed the issue of  interest and the same 
was disallowed for the reason that the fixed assets  were not put to use. On 
that issue undersigned has given a finding that the  entire interest excluding 
the interest on vacant land has to be allowed since  the loans have been 
taken for various properties income thereon have be en subjected to tax 
either as business income or as income under the he ad house property. It is 
also observed that appellant has furnished the deta ils of interest paid on 
loans taken against properties on which appellant h as offered income under 
the head house property and also AO has added deeme d income u/s.23 of 
the Act. Keeping in view the fact that entire loans  have been taken for the 
purpose of business more specifically acquisition o f properties, no part of the 
funds have been found to have diverted for any othe r purpose as discussed 
above and the fact that no specific show cause was given to the appellant, 
appellant is directed to furnish the details of the  interest expense incurred 
towards acquisition of properties on which income u nder the head "income 
from house property" is assessed including the inco me returned under thisITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
18  
 
head and AO is directed to verify the same if the c ontention of the appellant 
is found to be correct allow the interest u/s.24 of  the Act. 
 
Ground No.3 & 4 of the appeal are accordingly partl y allowed subject to the 
verification by the AO as above.” 
 
29. The ld.counsel for the assessee was unable to p oint out how it had 
been demonstrated to the CIT(A) that all interest e xpenses qualified for 
deduction under section24 of the Act.  In view of t he above, we see no 
merit in the ground no.4 raised by the assessee in its CO seeking 
allowance of claim of interest expenses u/s 24 of t he Act. 
 
30. The ld.CIT(A), we have noted, has been fair eno ugh, in allowing the 
assessee another opportunity to bring out the facts  of its case, and claim 
allowance of interest expenditure after verifying o f the facts by the AO and 
determining amount allowable as per law.  In this v iew of the matter, 
ground no.4 of the CO is also dismissed. 
 
31. In effect, the CO of the assessee is dismissed.  
  
Now we take up the appeal of the Revenue in ITA 
No.1386/Ahd/2019. 
 
32. Since in the CO filed by the assessee, we have already upheld the 
order of theld.CIT(A) that deemed rental income of the properties held as 
fixed assets had been rightly brought to tax as inc ome from house 
property under section 24 of the Act, we shall proc eed therefrom. 
 
33. We first deal with ground no.2 of the Departmen t’s appeal, which is 
connected to the aforestated issue, wherein the Rev enue  is aggrieved by 
the order of the ld.CIT(A) who deleted the addition  made of deemed rental 
income on account of property held as stock-in-trad e.  The addition being 
of Rs.28,85,598/- pertaining to the property held a s stock-in-trade of 
Rs.5,15,28,528/-.  
 
i)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs 28,85,598/- made on account of deeme d rent on stock 
in trade of Rs. 5,15,28,528/-.ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
19  
 
 
34. As noted above, the ld.CIT(A) deleted the addit ion  following decision 
of the Hon’ble jurisdictional High Court in the cas e of Neha Builders 
(supra) holding that property held as stock-in-trad e did not qualify for ALV 
thereto being subject to tax in terms of section 22  of the Act.  The ld.DR 
was unable to distinguish the said case before us. Inview of the same, 
we see no reason to interfere in the order of the l d.CIT(A) deleting the 
addition made on account of deemed rental income am ounting 
toRs.28,85,598/- on property held as stock-in-trade  by the assessee.  
Ground no.2 of the Revenue is accordingly dismissed . 
 
35. In ground no.1, the grievance of the Revenue is  against deletion of 
addition of Rs.3,55,26,367/- made on account of dis allowance of interest 
under section 36(1)(iii) of the Act.  
 
i)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs. 3,55,26,367/- made on account of di sallowance of 
interest u/s.36(i)(iii) of the Act. 
 
36. The AO had made disallowance noting that the as sessee had 
claimed total interest expenditure of Rs.6,79,98,11 7/-  out of which 
Rs.1,47,03,908/- was claimed as pertaining to inter est from properties 
earned from rental income.  The remaining claim of interest of 
Rs.5,32,94,209/- of the assessee was found to be in curred on borrowing 
of Rs.54,97,47,328/- , while inventory of the asses see was only to the 
tune of Rs.7,36,92,078/-.  The AO inferred from thi s data  that out of the 
borrowing of Rs.55 crores, only Rs.7 crores had bee n used in the business 
of the assessee, remaining, therefore, he inferred,  was for non-business 
purpose and in relation to the same, therefore, hed isallowed claim of the 
assessee amounting to Rs.4,83,25,510/-.  The ld.CIT (A) noted that the 
assessee was in the business of realestate and had made investment in 
property only, which were classified as fixed asset s or as stock-in-trade.  
He noted that the property held as fixed assets had  also been brought to 
tax on deemed rental income earned thereon under se ction 22  of the Act 
by the AO.  He therefore directed  allowanceof the claim of interest againstITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
20  
 
such properties,  as per section 24 of the Act.  Hi s finding at page no.14 of 
the order is as under: 
 
“After careful consideration of all the facts, asse ssment order and the 
submissions made it is seen that appellant has offe red the income under the 
head business and profession and income from house property. Income 
under both the heads have flown only from the prope rties held by the 
appellant. Further, AO has also added deemed rental  income u/s.23 of the 
Act on the vacant properties held under the head Fi xed Assets. Before the 
AC appellant have furnished complete details of the  interest expense 
incurred. Appellant has in the reply dated 22.10.20 18 which has been 
reproduced by the AO in the impugned assessment ord er submitted that out 
of the total interest the interest amounting to Rs. 1,27,99,143/- only has 
been laid out for plots on which no income is asses sed (including deemed 
income assessed by the AO). Appellant furnished all  the details and AO has 
not been able to find any deficiency or any part of  interest which is paid on 
the funds not used for the purpose of business; whi ch is acquisition of 
properties including plots. AO has disallowed the i nterest of 
Rs.4,83,25,510/-mainly because the same is incurred  on the properties held 
as Fixed Assets. Since, the income from such Fixed Assets has been added 
as per the provisions of section 23 of the Act (Rs. 1,59,30,256/-) by the AO 
appellant is entitled to deduction u/s.24 of the Ac t towards interest on such 
properties. Appellant has itself given the working of interest of 
Rs.1,27,99,143/- pertaining to plots on which no in come has been added 
and such plots continue to be a part of Fixed Asset s hence, this sum cannot 
be allowed and the disallowance to this extent is c onfirmed. However, since, 
the properties are held as capital appellant is all owed to capitalise the 
interest as a part of cost of assets (plots) for wh ich it is incurred.  For the 
balance interest since, the deemed  income on the f ixed  'assets; has  been  
assessed  u/s.23 of the Act appellant  is entitled to deduction as per the 
provisions of section 24 of the Act which is allowe d. AO is directed to allow 
the same.  
 
37. Before us, theld.DR was unable to controvert th e finding of the 
ld.CIT(A) that the property in relation to which th e AO had made 
disallowance of interest expenditure, i.e. thus cat egorized as fixed assets 
had been subjected to tax on account of deemed rent al income earned 
thereon as per section 22 of the Act.  Moreover, th is addition made to the 
income of the assessee has been confirmed by us in theCO of the assessee 
which has been dealt with by us in earlier part of the order as above.  
 
38. In view of the same, since the disallowance mad e by the AO was in 
relation to property held as fixed assets, and sinc e these very same 
properties have been subjected to tax on account of  deemed rental income 
under the head “income from house property”, theld. CIT(A)  has we holdITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
21  
 
rightly held  that the assessee is entitled to clai m interest expenses 
against the same, as per section 24 of the Act.  Th e ld.DR was unable to 
point out any infirmity in the finding of the ld.CI T(A) in this regard, 
therefore, we see no reason to interfere in the ord er of theld.CIT(A) deleting 
the disallowance made under section 36(1)(iii) of t he Act.   
 
Ground no.1 is dismissed. 
 
39. Ground no.3 & 4 are inter-related, pertaining t o the disallowance of 
expenses made for earning exempt income as per the provisions of section 
14A of the Act and adjustment thereto to the book p rofits of the assessee 
under section 115JB of the Act.  
 
i)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition of Rs 53,64,567/- made u/s. 14A rwr 8D of the Act. 
 
v)  That the Ld. CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts i n deleting the 
addition to book profit u/s.115JB of the Act on acc ount of 
disallowance of Rs. 67,64,567/~ made u/s. 14A of th e Act. 
 
40. The assessee had earned exempt agricultural inc ome amounting to 
Rs.14.00 lakhs during the year, and noting that hug e investments made 
amounting to Rs.20.76 crores had been made in plots  of land by the 
assessee, outof which such income hadbeen earned, t he AO computed the 
income disallowable under section 14A of the Act pe rtaining to the exempt 
income earned as under: 
 
i) Interest expenditure   Rs.50,08,553/- 
ii) Administrative expenses  Rs.17,56,014/-  
Total disallowance  Rs.67,64,567/- 
 
41. The ld.CIT(A) upheld order of the AO to the ext ent of disallowance 
under section 14A of the Act was maintainable, but at the same time, 
restricted it to the extent of exempt income earned  by the assessee 
following the decision of the Hon’ble jurisdictiona l High Court in the case 
of Corrtech Energy P.Ltd., (2014) 223 Taxmann 130 ( Guj).  The finding of 
theld.CIT(A) at para 8.1 of his order is as under:ITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
22  
 
“8.1 In the course of appellate proceedings the app ellant through Ld. AR contended 
.that the disallowance u/s. 14A cannot exceed the q uantum of exempt income. After 
careful consideration of the facts of the case, imp ugned assessment order and the 
submissions made I find that appellant has not been  able to controvert the findings 
of the AO that part of the interest: is laid out fo r acquisition of agriculture land. 
Further, as elaborately discussed in earlier part o f this order appellant has 
substantial interest expense amounting to Rs,6,87,3 i,533/- and the entire borrowed 
funds are utilised for acquisition of various prope rties including the agriculture 
lands. Hence, the interest expense is correctly att ributed by the AO. As regards the 
administrative expenses appellant have purchased ag riculture land as a part of its 
core business activity and the common infrastructur e of the appellant including the 
human resource and physical infrastructure is certa inly used for earning the exempt 
income. Hence, AO was fully justified in invoking t he provisions of section 14A of 
the Act.” 
 
42. The ld.DR was unable to point out any infirmity  in the order of the 
ld.CIT(A) vis-à-vis legal proposition followed by i t while restricting the 
disallowance to the extent of exempt income earned.   In view thereof, we 
see no reason to interfere in the order of the ld.C IT(A) restricting the 
disallowance of expenditure under section 14A of th e Act amounting to 
Rs.124 lakhs.   
43. Further, we find that for the purpose of adjust ment to made to the 
book profits of the assessee, on account of disallo wance of expenditure 
under section 14A of the Act, the ld.counsel for th e assessee relied upon 
the decision of the ITAT, Ahmedabad Benchin the cas e of Torrent Cable 
Ltd. Vs. ACIT, ITA No.3178/Ahd/2010 for holding tha t no adjustment of 
the same can be made to the book profits of the ass essee.  His findings at 
para-9 of his order are as under: 
“9. Ground No. 6 of the appeal pertain to addition of disallowance made 
u/s. 14A of the Act to the Book Profit computed as per the provisions of 
section 115JB of the act. As regards the addition o f disallowances u/s. 14A 
in the (Dock profits computed under the provision o f section 115JB I find 
that the issue is squarely covered by the judgment of Hon'ble Ahmedabad 
ITAT in the case of Torrent Cable Ltd v/s ACIT vide  ITA no: 3178/Ahd/2011 
dated 02/01/2017 wherein it has been held : 
 
 "6  We have carefully considered the rival submiss ion on the 'issue 
involved. The assesses has relied upon the Judgment  of Hon'ble 
Gujarat High Court in the case of Alembic Ltd. (sup ra), Therelevant 
operative para of the order of the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court is 
reproduced hereunder: 
 
8.  Taking into consideration the evidence on the r ecord and ; 
considering the decision of this court in the case of Commissioner ofITA No.1386/Ahd/2019 with CO 
23  
 
Income  Tax-1 vs.   Gujarat State Fertilizers & che micals Ltd. (supra), 
we are of the opinion that the issue Nos.  (iii) an d (iv) required to be 
answered in the favour of the assessee and against the revenue. In 
that view of the matter, we answer questions (iii) and (iv) referred to 
us in favour of the assessee and against the   reve nue.  
 
The appeal of the revenue is dismissed. 
 
7. Seen on the anvil of the aforesaid decision of t he Hon'ble Gujarat 
High Court squarely on the issue, we find merit con tention on behalf 
of the assessee and direct the Ld. Assessing Office r to delete the 
adjustment made on the account of estimated disallo wance 
determined under section 14A r.w. Rule 8D of the I. T: Rules, 1962 
while computing book profit under section 115JB of the Act” 
Respectfully following the judgment of jurisdiction al ITAT it is held that 
disallowance u/s. 14A as restricted by this order t o the extent of exempt 
income cannot be added in the book profits u/s.115J B.  Thus, appeal on the 
related grounds is allowed.” 
44. The ld.DR was unable to distinguish the decision r elied upon 
by the ld.CIT(A) while holding so.  In view of the s ame, we see no 
reason to interfere in the order of ld.CIT(A) deleting the adjustment 
made to the book profits of the assessee on account of expenses 
disallowed under section 14A of the Act.  
 
Ground no.3 & 4 of the Revenue are dismissed. 
Appeal of the Revenue is accordingly dismissed. 
 
45. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue and cross -objection of 
the assessee are dismissed.  
 
Order pronounced in the Court on 6th March, 2023 at 
Ahmedabad.   
 
 
 
 Sd/-  Sd/- 
(T.R. SENTHIL KUMAR) 
JUDICIAL MEMBER 
 (ANNAPURNA GUPTA)  
ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
Ahmedabad,  dated   06/03/2023  
  
vk*