IN THE INCOME TAX   APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
PUNE BENCH, ‘C’ PUNE  
 
BEFORE SHRI R.S. SYAL, VICE PRESIDENT AND 
SHRI PARTHA SARATHI CHAUDHURY, JUDICIAL MEMBER 
 
आयकर  अपील  सं. / ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
नधारण  वष / Assessment Year : 2016-17 
 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L., 
(Formerly Known as Gonvarri Eolica S.L.,  
12 th  Floor, Planta 11-12, 
Calle del Ombu, 
3, Madrid, Spain 
PAN : AAFCG4517Q      Vs. ACIT (IT),  
Circle-1,   
Pune 
Appellant  Respondent  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
आदेश   / ORDER  
 
PER R.S. SYAL, VP :  
 
This appeal by the assessee is directed against the final 
Assessment order dated 26-03-2021 passed by the Assess ing Officer 
(AO) u/s.143(3) r.w.s. 144C(13) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(hereinafter also called ‘the Act’) in relation to the assessmen t year 
2016-17.   
2. The first issue raised in this appeal is against applying th e tax 
rate as per section 115A of the Act instead of the tax rate  as per the 
DTAA between India and Spain (hereinafter also called  ‘the 
DTAA’) read with the Protocol thereof. Assessee by Shri Siddhesh Chaugule  
Revenue by Shri Shivraj B More 
  
Date of hearing 14-02-2022 
Date of pronouncement  15-02-2022ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 2
3. Pithily put, the factual panorama of the case is that the assessee 
is a foreign company incorporated in Spain.  The return w as filed 
declaring total income of Rs.2,88,38,464/-, comprising of r eceipt of  
Rs.2,25,29,742/- from M/s. Shrenik Industries Pvt. Ltd. tow ards 
providing technical support, financial support and advice, lega l 
support, commercial support etc., and Rs.63,08,722/- rec eived 
towards SAP software and implementation of process model.  The 
assessee declared the above amounts as ‘fees for technic al services’ 
and ‘royalties’ respectively, claiming them as covered unde r Article 
13 of the DTAA.  Relying on the Protocol to the DTAA having M ost 
Favoured Nation (MFN) clause along with Article 12 of the Doub le 
Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and Portugal 
(Portuguese DTAA), the assessee claimed that the above gr oss 
receipts of ‘royalties’ and ‘fees for technical services’ w ere taxable 
@10% instead of 20% as provided in the DTAA.  The AO did  not 
dispute the amount or the nature of income offered by the  assessee.  
He, however, held that the tax rate of 10% applied by the as sessee 
under Portuguese DTAA could not be applied because section 90(1) 
specifically requires the issuance of necessary Notification by  the 
Government of India.  In order to import an MFN clause from 
another DTAA having lower rate of tax or narrower scope ofITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 3
definition of certain clause, it is necessary that such importing  of 
clause must be notified. In the absence of any notification  of the 
MFN clause from the Portuguese DTAA, the AO held that the 
benefit of the relevant Article of the Portuguese DTAA was not 
available to the assessee in terms of the Protocol and hence,  the ‘fees 
for technical services’ and ‘royalty’ was chargeable to ta x at 10% 
plus applicable Surcharge and Education Cess in terms of se ction 
115A of the Act, which was more beneficial vis-à-vis  20% rate of tax 
provided in the DTAA.  No succor was provided by the Disp ute 
Resolution Panel. In the final assessment order, the AO taxed the 
amount of ‘fees for technical Services’ and ‘royalty’ at 10 % plus 
applicable Surcharge and Education cess u/s.115A of the Act as 
against 20% straight rate in the DTAA. Aggrieved thereby, the  
assessee has come up in appeal before the Tribunal. 
4.   We have heard the rival submissions and scanned  the relevant 
material on record.  It is amply borne out from the facts r ecorded 
above that there is no dispute on the quantum, nature or taxa bility of 
the amount of ‘fees for technical services’ or ‘royalty’ of the 
assessee.  The core of controversy is only anent to the r ate of tax to 
be applied on such income. Section 115A of the Act, dealing  with tax 
on ‘royalty’ and ‘fees for technical services’ etc. in the case ofITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 4
foreign companies, provides through clause (b) of sub-se ction (1) 
that where the total income of a non-resident (not being a com pany) 
or a foreign company includes income by way of ‘royalty’  or ‘fees 
for technical services’ etc., the amount of income-tax shall b e 
calculated @10%.  It goes without saying that such rate of tax  is 
liable to be loaded with the applicable Surcharge and Education cess.  
Section 90 of the Act provides that where the Central Govern ment 
has entered into an Agreement with the Government of any co untry 
outside India for granting relief in respect of income on whic h tax is 
payable both in India and the other country, then, in relation to the 
assessee to whom such Agreement applies, the provisions o f the Act 
shall apply to the extent they are more beneficial to that assess ee.  To 
put simply, if the provisions of the concerned DTAA are more 
beneficial to the assessee vis-a-vis  their counterparts under the Act, 
then the assessee can choose to be governed by the bene ficial 
provisions contained in the DTAA.   
5. The assessee is a resident of Spain and the DTAA betwe en 
India and Spain was notified in 1995.  Article 13 of the DTAA  
contains provisions relating to ‘royalties’ and ‘fees for tech nical 
services’, whose relevant part runs as under: -ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 5
`1. Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a 
Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other 
Contracting State may be taxed in that other State. 
2. However, such royalties and fees for technical service s may 
also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and  
according to the law of that State, but if the recipient is the 
beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical servic es, 
the tax so charged shall not exceed : 
(i) in the case of royalties relating to the payments for the us e 
of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific 
equipment, 10% of the gross amount of the royalties; 
(ii) in the case of fees for technical services and other 
royalties, 20% of the gross amount of fees for technical 
services or royalties. 
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means paymen ts 
of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the 
right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific 
work, including cinematographic films or films or tapes used  
for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark , 
design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for  the use 
of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific 
equipment, or for information concerning industrial, 
commercial or scientific experience.  
4.  …..’ 
6.  Para 1 of Article 13 provides that ‘royalties’ and ‘fees  for 
technical services’ arising in India and paid to resident of Spa in may 
be taxed in Spain.  Para 2 states that such ‘royalties’ or ‘f ees for 
technical services’ may also be taxed in India. It is undispute d that 
insofar as the copyright royalty under consideration is conc erned, the 
same is liable to tax at the rate of 20% as per para 13(2)( ii) of the 
DTAA. In the same manner, fees for technical services als o attractsITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 6
tax rate of 20% as per the DTAA.  Going with Article 13 of the 
DTAA, it is clear that the rate of tax in case of ‘fees for te chnical 
services’ and `other royalties’ as received by the assess ee, is 20%.   
7.    At this stage, it is relevant to take note of the Protocol to the 
DTAA,  which provides vide para 7, as follows :  
‘7. The competent authorities shall initiate the ap propriate 
procedures to review the provisions of Article 13 ( Royalties and 
fees for technical services) after a period of five  years from the 
date of its entry into force. However, if under any Convention or 
Agreement between India and a third State which is a Member of 
the OECD, which enters, into force after 1st Januar y, 1990, India 
limits  its taxation at source on royalties or fees for tec hnical 
services to a rate lower or a scope more restricted than the rate or 
scope provided for in this Convention on the said items of 
incomes, the same rate or scope as provided for in that 
Convention or Agreement on the said items of income  shall also 
apply under this convention  with effect from the date on which the 
present Convention comes into force or the relevant  Indian 
Convention or Agreement, whichever enters into forc e later.’ 
8. A cursory glance at the above para unfolds that if und er any 
convention between India and a third State which is a Member o f the 
OECD, entered into force after 01-01-1990, India limits its taxation 
for ‘royalties’ or ‘fees for technical services’ “ to a rate lower ” or 
“scope  more restricted ” than the rate or scope as set out in the 
DTAA, such beneficial rate or scope shall also apply under this 
Convention.  Thus, the MFN clause contained in the above p ara 7 of 
the Protocol manifests that if India has entered into a Conventio n 
after 01-01-1990 with a third country which is a Member of theITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 7
OECD and under such Convention it has, inter alia,  agreed for a 
lower rate of taxation vis-à-vis  that provided in the DTAA with 
Spain, such lower rate of tax will apply under the DTAA with S pain. 
India entered into a DTAA with Portuguese Republic vide 
Notification dated 16-06-2000. Article 12 of the DTAA with 
Portugal, which is an OECD member country and fulfils all oth er 
conditions as prescribed in the Protocol, provides that the ‘ro yalties’ 
and ‘fees for technical services’ shall, in the circumstance s as are 
obtaining in the extant case, be taxed at 10% of the gross amount.  
Taking assistance of 10% tax rate as provided in Article 12 o f the 
Portuguese DTAA, the assessee claimed that the tax rate of 2 0% as 
provided under Article 13 of the DTAA between India and Sp ain 
shall not apply and it will be governed by the reduced rate of taxation 
of 10% as per Article 12 of the Portuguese DTAA.  The Rev enue 
jettisoned the applicability of India and Portugal DTAA on the 
ground that the import of MFN clause from the Portuguese DTA A 
was not notified and hence the Protocol under the DTAA betw een 
India and Spain would have no application.  
9. At this juncture, it is relevant to note that the Agreement 
entered into between India and Spain was signed by both the 
countries on 08-02-1993, which entered into force on 12- 01-1995ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 8
and was notified on 21-04-1995.  The Protocol was appen ded and 
made a part of the Agreement between India and Spain, inter alia,  
providing for the MFN clause qua  ‘royalties’ and ‘fees for technical 
services’ under para 7.  Such Protocol was also signed by  both the 
Governments on the same date, namely, 08-02-1993.  The  opening 
part of the Protocol states that:  `At the moment of signing the 
Convention between the Government of the Republic of India a nd 
the Government of the Kingdom of Spain for the Avoidance o f 
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respec t to 
taxes on Income and on Capital, the undersigned have agre ed upon 
the following provisions which shall be an integral part of the 
Convention .’ It is overt from the opening part of the Protocol, duly 
signed by the competent authorities of both the countries along  with 
and on the same date on which the main Agreement or Conve ntion 
was signed, that the Protocol has been treated as “ an integral part of 
the Convention ”.  Once the Agreement between India and Spain was 
notified on 21-04-1995, the Protocol, which is an integral par t of the 
Agreement, also got automatically notified along with the 
Agreement.  In such a scenario, it is difficult to comprehen d the need 
for any separate notification for the import of the MFN clause .ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 9
10.    It would be prudent to take cognizance of the CBDT  Circular 
No.3/2022 dated 03-02-2022 providing clarification and laying  down 
certain pre-requisites for deriving the benefit of the MFN claus e in 
the Protocol to India’s DTAAs with certain countries.  The CBD T 
has summed up its opinion in para 5 of the Circular, readin g as 
under:- 
“5.  In view of the above, it is hereby clarified that the 
applicability of the MFN clause and benefit of the lower rate or 
restricted scope of source taxation rights in relation to certain  
items of income (such as dividends, interest income, royalties , 
Fees for Technical Services, etc.) provided in India's DTAAs  
with the third States will be available to the first (OECD) State 
only when all the following conditions are met:  
 
(i) The second treaty (with the third State) is entered into after  
the signature/ Entry into Force (depending upon the language o f 
the MFN clause) of the treaty between India and the first Sta te;  
 
(ii) The second treaty is entered into between India and a Sta te 
which is a member of the OECD at the time of signing the 
treaty with it;  
 
(iii) India limits its taxing rights in the second treaty in relation 
to rate or scope of taxation in respect of the relevant items o f 
income; and  
 
(iv) A separate notification has been issued by India, importing 
the benefits of the second treaty into the treaty with the first 
State, as required by the provisions of sub-section (1) of S ection 
90 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 .  
 
If all the conditions enumerated in Paragraph 5(i) to (iv) are 
satisfied, then the lower rate or restricted scope in the treaty  
with the third State is imported into the treaty with an OECD 
State having MFN clause from the date as per the provisions ofITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 10 
the MFN clause in the DTAA, after following the due 
procedure under the Indian tax law.” 
 
11.   A look at the above para deciphers that the benefit o f a lower 
rate of taxation or restricted scope of source taxation rights , as 
contained in the MFN clause with reference to ‘royalty’ and ‘ fees for 
technical services’ etc. provided in the India’s DTAAs with s econd 
State, can be availed under the DTAA with the first State only when 
the four conditions are fulfilled.  There is no dispute that co nditions 
enshrined under points (i) to (iii) are fulfilled in the instant c ase.  The 
condition under point (iv) states that a separate notification sho uld be 
issued by India importing the benefit of the second treaty in to treaty 
with the first State as required u/s 90(1) of the Act.  Thus, it becomes 
ostensible that the CBDT has mandated the issuance of a sepa rate 
notification for importing the benefits of a treaty with second State 
into the treaty with the first State by relying on provisions of sub-
section (1) of Section 90 of the Income Act, 1961.  Let u s examine 
the prescription of section 90(1) of the Act which has been  invoked  
as a shield for stipulating the fourth requirement. This section 
provides that: `The Central Government may enter into an agr eement 
with the Government of any country outside India or specified  
territory outside India,— (a) for the granting of relief in res pect of—  
(i) income on which have been paid both income-tax under th is ActITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 11 
and income-tax in that country or specified territory, as the case may 
be, or…….and may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make 
such provisions as may be necessary for implementing the 
agreement. ’ In our opinion, the Circular specifying the need for a 
separate notification for importing the beneficial treatment fr om 
another Agreement as a corollary of section 90(1) of the A ct, 
overlooks the plain language of the section seen in juxtapositio n to 
the language of the Protocol, which treats the MFN clause an in tegral 
part of the Agreement. What is amply borne out from the lan guage of 
section 90(1) is that a notification may be made for implementing the 
agreement  that the Central Government has entered into with the 
Government of any country outside India for the granting the  relief.  
Reference to the expression ` make such provisions as may be 
necessary’  for the purpose of notification in the Official Gazette, is 
to adopt the manner of notifying as may be necessary for 
implementing the agreement  and not that the notification is to be 
issued piecemeal and in a truncated manner . On notifying the 
Agreement or Convention, all its integral parts, get automaticall y 
notified. As such, there remains no need to again notify th e 
individual limbs of the Agreement so as to make them operationa l 
one by one.ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 12 
12.    It is trite law that a circular issued by the CBDT is bind ing on 
the AO and not on the assessee or the Tribunal or other a ppellate 
authorities. It has been held so authoritatively  in CIT Vs. Hero 
Cycles Pvt. Ltd. (1997) 228 ITR 463 (SC) as reiterated in CCE Vs. 
M/s. Ratan Melting and Wire Industries (2008) 220 CTR 98 (S C) .  Ex 
consequenti , the Circular transgressing the boundaries of section 
90(1) of the Act, cannot bind the Tribunal.   
13.   Notwithstanding the above, it can be seen that the CB DT has 
panned out a fresh requirement of separate notification to be  issued 
for India importing the benefits of the DTAA from second State to 
the DTAA with the first State by virtue of its Circular, relying on  
such requirement as supposedly contained in section 90(1) o f the 
Act. In our considered opinion, the requirement contained in the 
CBDT circular No.03/2022 cannot primarily be applied to the period 
anterior to the date of its issuance as it is in the nature of a n 
additional detrimental stipulation mandated for taking benefit 
conferred by the DTAA.  It is a settled legal position that a p iece of 
legislation which imposes a new obligation or attaches a new 
disability is considered prospective unless the legislative intent is 
clearly to give it a retrospective effect.  We are confronted  with a 
circular, much less an amendment to the enactment, which attaches aITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 13 
new disability of a separate notification for importing the ben efits of 
an Agreement with the second State into the treaty with first State .  
Obviously, such a Circular cannot operate retrospectively to the 
transactions taking place in any period anterior to its issuance . In 
view of the foregoing discussion, we are satisfied that the 
requirement of a separate notification for implementing the MFN 
clause, as per the recent CBDT circular dt. 03-02-2022, cannot be 
invoked for the year under consideration, which is much pr ior to the 
CBDT circular of the year 2022. 
14.     To summarize, the DTAA between India and Spain,  having the 
Protocol containing the MFN clause as its integral part, was du ly 
notified on 21-04-1995, after having entered into force on 12-01-
1995.  On such notification of the DTAA, the Protocol contain ing the 
MFN clause triggering the importing of any other DTAA fulfilling  
the requisite requirements, including the Portuguese DTAA, got 
automatically notified pro tanto , in terms of section 90(1) of the Act 
leaving no room for any separate notification for the importa tion. 
The sequitur is that that the authorities below were not justified in  
denying the benefit of the straight rate of tax at 10% as pe r the 
DTAA read with Portuguese DTAA and also additionally charging 
Surcharge and  Education cess.ITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 14 
15.    The next ground raised is about taxing Rs.35,67, 719/- as 
income from royalty or fees for technical services, whic h the assessee 
claimed to have received as reimbursement and hence not includible 
in its gross revenue for taxability.  
16.   Tersely stated, the facts of this ground are that the assessee 
claimed a sum of Rs.35,67,719/- as reimbursement on cost-to-cost 
basis and did not include the same in the total revenues for  the 
purpose of offering income for taxation.  The AO called u pon the 
assessee to furnish complete evidence like all invoices, agree ments, 
ledger extracts and etc. in support of recovery/reimburse ment of the 
expenses.  In the absence of any response coming from  the side of 
the assessee, the AO treated this amount as a part and parc el of ‘fees 
for technical services/royalties’ and thus applied tax rate o f 10% plus 
applicable surcharge and education cess thereon.  The ass essee filed 
certain evidence before the Dispute Resolution Panel in suppor t of its 
contention that the amount was in the nature of reimbursemen t of 
certain expenses by contending that the draft assessment ord er was 
notified on 20-12-2019 and the assessee’s submission on 
reimbursement with relevant evidence filed on 19-12-2019, remained 
unconsidered.  The DRP called for the comments of the A O, who 
raised objection to the assessee’s contention.  The DRP repelle d theITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 15 
assessee’s claim of exclusion of the amount of Rs.35,6 7,716/- from 
gross revenue.  It further held that the in the scheme of taxation 
u/s.115A of the Act, all the receipts shown on gross bas is are 
considered and hence, the assessee’s stand on reducing  certain costs 
was not acceptable.  As such, no succor was allowed by th e DRP, 
which culminated into the addition by the AO in the final order.  
17.    We have heard both the sides and gone through th e relevant 
material on record.  It is seen that the assessee offered its  income 
from ‘royalties’ and ‘fees for technical services’ on gro ss basis, 
albeit at the concessional rate of tax.  The assessee claimed that a 
sum of Rs.35.67 lakh was received as reimbursement of expenses 
which was not liable to be included in the gross receipts.  Pri marily, 
we find that the basic details about the nature of expenses etc . are not 
forthcoming.  It is not known as to whether such expenses  claimed to 
be reimbursed were in furtherance of the rendering of ‘ fees for 
technical services’ or de hors  the same.  The assessee has not placed 
on record invoices raised to the Indian parties towards ‘fe es for 
technical services/royalties’ to demonstrate if such amounts cla imed 
as reimbursement were part of ‘royalties/fees for technic al services’.  
Even the claim of reimbursement without any mark-up has  not been 
properly established before the Tribunal. In the absence of  suchITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 16 
relevant details, it is difficult to conclude as to whether the amou nt 
claimed as reimbursement should form part of total revenu e base for 
applying concessional rate of tax. 
18.    We accentuate that there is an inherent difference between the 
scheme of taxation of an item of income por una parte  u/s 115A of 
the Act or under the concerned Article of the DTAA and por otra 
parte  under the normal provisions of the Act or the Articles of the  
DTAA providing for taxation at normal rate.  In the former case, 
revenue or gross receipt itself is charged to tax though at a  
concessional rate of 10% etc., in the latter, it is the income e mbedded 
in the revenue or gross receipt which is charged to tax at normal rate. 
Any reimbursement in the latter case cannot be charged to ta x 
because of the absence of any element of income therein, which is 
sine qua non for the chargeability in such a situation. However, in the 
former case which proceeds with taxation of the gross 
receipts/revenue at a concessional rate of tax, reimburs ement of costs 
that have contributed to the earning of the revenue have to be 
necessarily included.  In all cases of taxation of revenue o r gross 
basis, a fundamental question which needs to be asked is w hether a 
particular cost has contributed to the earning of the reven ue.  If the 
answer is in affirmative, then its corresponding receipt need s to beITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 17 
included in the revenue for applying the concessional rate of  tax 
irrespective of the nomenclature given to the parties as 
reimbursement or revenue. Thus in all cases of concessio nal taxation 
on gross receipt or revenue basis, splitting of total receipt in to 
reimbursement or revenue, remains neutral to its chargeab ility.  Both 
such cases, invariably warrant inclusion of the receipt in the revenue 
base for taxation so long as the receipt is relatable to costs  incurred 
contributing to the earning of the revenue. An assessee c annot be 
permitted to opt for concessional rate of taxation on gross re ceipt 
basis and then claim that some part of the receipts should b e left out 
by describing it as reimbursement. It is patently an absurd  
proposition.  
19.    In view of the fact that necessary details for determ ining the 
above issues are not available on record, we set aside th e impugned 
order on this score and remit the matter to the file of the AO for 
deciding the point on the touchstone of the discussion made supra .  
Needless to say, the assessee will be allowed a reasonable 
opportunity of hearing. 
 
20.    Ground No.3 is about the short TDS credit of Rs.47, 68,155/-.  
The claim of the assessee is that the AO did not grant bene fit of theITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 18 
TDS.  The AO is directed to verify the facts and allow necess ary 
TDS credit as per law. 
21.   The next ground about levy of interest is consequentia l and 
disposed off accordingly. 
22.    In the result, the appeal is partly allowed. 
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 15 th   February, 2022. 
 
 
                   Sd/-                         Sd/- 
       ( PARTHA SARATHI CHAUDHURY )         ( R.S.SYAL ) 
            JUDICIAL MEMBER                     VIC E PRESIDENT 
 
पुणे Pune; िदनांक   Dated :  15 th   February, 2022                                                
सतीश    
 
आदेश  की ितिलिप  अेिषत /Copy of the Order is forwarded to : 
 
1. अपीलाथ  / The Appellant; 
2. थ  / The respondent  
3. The CIT (DRP-3) Mumbai-1, CIT (DRP-3) Mumbai-2, 
CIT (DRP-3) Mumbai-3, 
4. DR, ITAT, ‘C’ Bench, Pune 
5. गाड फाईल  / Guard file.     
  
         आदेशानुसार / BY ORDER,  
 
// True Copy //  
 
                                           Senior P rivate Secretary 
       आयकर  अपीलीय  अिधकरण  , पुणे / ITAT, PuneITA No.202/PUN/2021 
GRI Renewable Industries S.L. 
 
 
 
 19 
 
  Date  
1. Draft dictated on  14-02-2022 Sr.PS 
2. Draft placed before author 15-02-2022 Sr.PS 
3. Draft proposed & placed before 
the second member   JM 
4. Draft discussed/approved by 
Second Member.  JM 
5. Approved Draft comes to the 
Sr.PS/PS  Sr.PS 
6. Kept for pronouncement on  Sr.PS 
7. Date of uploading order  Sr.PS 
8. File sent to the Bench Clerk  Sr.PS 
9. Date on which file goes to the 
Head Clerk   
10. Date on which file goes to the 
A.R.   
11. Date of dispatch of Order.   
*