IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL “K” BENCH, MUM BAI 
  
BEFORE SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI, AM AND  
MS. KAVITHA RAJAGOPAL, JM 
 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 
(Assessment Year: 2012-13) 
 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private 
Limited 
M/s. Serene Properties Private Limited 
(SEZ) 
Unit No. 204, Building No.5, 
Mindspace, Airoli, Mumbai-400 708 Vs. The Assistant CIT, Range 3(2)(1) 
Mumbai 
 
PAN/GIR No. AABC 15573 J 
(Appellant ) : (Respondent ) 
 
Assessee by  : Shri S. C. Tiwari 
Revenue by   : Ms. Samruddhi Dhananjay Hande 
 
Date of Hearing  : 30.11.2022 
Date of Pronouncement  : 22.02 .20 23 
 
O R D E R  
 
Per Kavitha Rajagopal, J M:  
 
 
This appeal has been filed by the assessee, challen ging the assessment order 
passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C(5) & 144C(13) r.w.s.  92CA(3) of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (‘the Act'), in pursuance to the direction iss ued by the Hon’ble Dispute Resolution 
Panel (ld. DRP for short), relevant to the Assessme nt Year (‘A.Y.’ for short) 2012-13.  
 
2. The assessee has challenged the addition/disallo wance made by the Assessing 
Officer (A.O. for short) on transfer pricing ground s along with the other grounds of 
appeal.  
 
3. The brief facts are that the assessee is engaged  in providing Revenue Cycle 
Management (RCM for short) to companies in US healt h care sector and has set up a 
subsidiary called Inventurus Knowledge Solution Inc  (IKS Inc for short) in US to assist 
in the marketing and onsite support activity for th e RCM business, which is wholly2 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 owned subsidiary of the assessee company. The asses see filed its return of income dated 
29.11.2013, declaring total loss of Rs.15,43,61,384 /-. The assessee’s case was selected 
for scrutiny and the assessment order dated 27.01.2 017 was passed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 
144C(5) and 144C(13) r.w.s. 92CA(3) of the Act, whe re the A.O. determined the total 
loss of Rs.13,98,27,598/-, as against the returned loss of Rs.15,43,61,384/-, pursuant to 
the direction of the ld. DRP. It was observed that from Form No. 3CEB, the assessee 
company has entered into the international transact ion with its associated enterprises 
amounting to Rs.42,14,02,500/-. The assessee’s case  was referred to the Transfer Pricing 
Officer (‘TPO’ for short) to determine the Arm’s Le ngth Price (‘ALP’ for short) of the 
international transaction with AE’s, whereby the TP O determined an upward adjustment 
of Rs.1,32,93,815/- vide order dated 29.01.2016. It  is observed that the TPO had adopted 
the OP/OC of the AE’s segment of the assessee at 22 .63% as against 15.89% determined 
by the assessee, whereby resulting in an addition o f Rs.1,32,93,815/- to the total income 
of the assessee. The A.O. had also made an addition  u/s. 36(1)(va) r.w.s. 2(24)(x) of the 
Act for delayed payment of employees contribution t o provident fund (‘PF’ for short) and 
Employees State Insurance Corporation (‘ESIC’ for s hort), aggregating to Rs.12,39,971/-. 
The assessee has raised an objection before the ld.  DRP on various grounds against the 
draft assessment order dated 29.03.2016, where the total income was assessed at 
Rs.58,90,86,366/-. The ld. DRP has disposed of the objections raised by the assessee on 
the adjustments/additions proposed by the A.O. in t he draft assessment order and had 
upheld the adjustment made by the TPO/A.O.  
 
4. The assessee is in appeal before us, challenging  the final assessment order dated 
27.01.2017 passed in pursuance to the direction giv en by the DRP as under:3 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 i.  The assessee has challenged the transfer pricing ad justment on the ground that the 
assessee being an India headquarters company wherei n substantial portion of its 
profits are derived from tax holiday units, thereby  contending that there was no 
intention to shift profit out of India and, hence, the transfer pricing provisions 
were not to be applied in assessee’s case. 
 
ii.  The assessee has challenged the transfer pricing ad justment on the ground that the 
TPO/A.O. had rejected the AE as the tested party fo r bench marking the 
international transaction of RCM services and had e rred in taking the assessee as 
tested party by disregarding the functional profile s of the assessee and the AE. 
 
iii.  The A.O./TPO has rejected the bench marking analysi s undertaken by the assessee 
for the international transaction of RCM services a nd has erroneously rejected the 
AE as the tested party for the international transa ction inspite of the fact that the 
annual reports of the comparable companies selected  by the assessee was available 
in the public domain and the same was not looked in to while making the TP 
adjustment.  
 
iv.  The assessee has also challenged the ground that th e bench marking analysis 
should be undertaken by using three years average d ata of the comparables instead 
of only single year data and has also challenged th e application of filter for 
rejecting companies which followed a financial year  other than April to March.  
 
v.  The assessee has also challenged the search proceed ing applied by the TPO, 
wherein eight companies selected as comparable by t he A.O./TPO without sharing 
the search process undertaken for identifying the c omparables.  
 
vi.  The assessee also challenged the comparables namely  Excel Infoways Ltd., 
University Prince System Ltd. and BNR Udyog Ltd. as  comparable for bench 
marking the international transaction.  
 
vii.  The assessee has challenged, on the ground that the  assessee was not allowed 
benefit of working capital adjustment to account fo r the difference in working 
capital level between the assessee and the comparab le companies. The assessee 
contended that the arms length price should be limi ted to the lower end of 5% 
range as per proviso to section 92C of the Act.4 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 5. The assessee contended that it operates from spe cial category zone units in 
Mumbai and Hyderabad for which tax holiday u/s. 10A A of the Act for the profits earned 
were availed by the assessee. The assessee further contended that the assessee being a 
parent entity of the group has headquarters in Indi a and the shareholders are also based in 
India, stating that the assessee does not intend to  shifts its profits out of India. The 
assessee also stated that the assessee’s AE, IKS In c is in USA where the corporate tax 
rate is higher than that in India which negates the  fact that the assessee wants to shift 
profit out of India. The assessee relied on the dec ision of Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 
vs. Addl. CIT  (in ITA No. 7513/Mum/2010 vide order dated 04.09.2 015) where the 
Tribunal held that no TP adjustment can be made in cases where the assessee is benefited 
out of section 10A or section 80HHE or where the ta x rate of the AE’s country is higher 
than that in India. The assessee’s contention was n ot accepted by the ld. DRP/TPO/A.O. 
Though the assessee has raised various contentions in the grounds of appeal, it is 
pertinent to consider the grounds where the A.O./TP O has rejected the assessee as a 
tested party for bench marking the international tr ansaction of provision of RCM services 
and had bench marked the said transaction by using the assessee as tested party. The 
assessee submits that the IKS India is the risk bea ring entrepreneur entity which was 
solely responsible for the entire risk and reward o f the client contracts and that IKS Inc 
acts only as a contracting entity with the clients,  which is a risk free entity. The assessee 
contended that the foreign AE, i.e. IKS Inc is cons idered to be least complex entity and 
has to be selected as the tested party. The assesse e relied on the decision of the co-
ordinate bench in the case of Tata Motors European Technology Centre Plc vs. ADIT  (in 
ITA No. 7630/Mum/2012 vide order 22.12.2014) which held that the foreign5 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 comparables cannot be rejected for bench marking th e ALP. The lower authorities had 
rejected the assessee’s contention for the reason t hat the assessee has taken weighted 
average of three years of comparables which also ha ve different financial year ending 
other than April to March and that the assessee has  not used the current year data 
exclusively for all the comparable companies which violates Rule 10B(4) of the IT Rule 
where the proviso to the said Rules states that the  earlier two years data can also be used 
when it is shown that the earlier year data had an influenced in determining the price. The 
TPO/AO further held that the earlier year data can be used when the conditions are 
satisfied and it has to be used in addition to the current year data. The TPO/A.O. also 
stated that the assessee has failed to give any cog ent reason as to why the earlier year data 
has an influence over the pricing in neither in ass essee’s case nor in uncontrolled 
enterprises. The TPO considered the comparable sele cted by the assessee as different in 
activities which involved human resources, finance accounting, advisory and marketing, 
whereas in assessee’s case, it was into information  technology service sector where the 
role of AE was limited to identifying clients, nego tiation of contracts and co-ordination. 
The TPO/A.O. held that the comparable companies sel ected by the assessee are 
functionally different and that the information per taining to the comparables was difficult 
to be sourced and also was difficult to get reliabl e information. The TPO/A.O. stated that 
only Indian entities are to be taken as tested part y in assessee’s case and that the AE 
cannot be taken as the tested party for the above m entioned reason.    
 
6. The ld. AR for the assessee contended that the c o-ordinate bench in the case of the 
assessee for A.Y. 2011-12 has held that the foreign  associated enterprises is considered as 
a least complex functions and can be considered as an tested party. The ld. AR further6 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 contended that the usage of data of three years sho uld not be a ground for the ld. 
TPO/A.O. to reject the said comparable. The ld. AR stated that the foreign AE satisfies 
all the conditions required for a tested party.  
 
7. The learned Departmental Representative (ld. DR for short) for the Revenue, on 
the other hand, controverted the same and relied on  the order of the lower authorities. 
 
8. Having heard the rival submissions and perused t he materials on record. It is 
observed that the assessee is an Indian entity wher e its units are located in the Special 
Economic Zone units in Mumbai and Hyderabad for whi ch it avails the tax holidays u/s. 
10AA of the Act for substantial amount of its profi t. The assessee here has contended that 
it has no intention of shifting of profits outside India and that the corporate tax rate of its 
AE (IKS Inc.) is based in USA where the corporate t ax rate is higher than that in India. 
The assessee has also relied on the decision of the  co-ordinate bench in the case of Tata 
Consultancy Services Ltd. (supra), wherein it has held that the TP adjustment s should not 
be made in case where the assessee is benefited u/s .10A or section 80HHE of the Act or 
where the tax of the AE’s country is higher than th at of the rate in India. The assessee has 
also contended on the ground that the foreign AE ha s to be taken as a tested party for the 
fact that it is the least complex functions. We wou ld like to place our reliance on the 
decision of the co-ordinate bench, which has been a uthored by us in ITA No. 
2403/Mum/2018 & CO No.249/Mum/2019 for A.Y. 2011-12  vide order dated 
21.10.2022, where we have taken a view that the for eign AE can be taken as the tested 
party whose functions are least complex in nature a nd for the reason that it does not own7 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 any intangible and can be verified by using reliabl e data base. The relevant extract of the 
said decision is cited hereunder for ease of refere nce:  
016.  The learned CIT (A) held that there is no inf irmity in taking the foreign Associated 
Enterprises as a tested party. The learned CIT (A) in Para 9 held as under: -  
 
“9. The matter is examined. I find that the appella nt has rebutted each of the items listed 
by Assessing officer for not treating IKS Inc as te sted party. In this case there is only one 
AE, and such AE need not be based in India. The 3-y ear data and F.Y. difference are 
adjustable issues when comparable are selected and analysis for inclusion/elimination. If 
usage of data of 3 years is not acceptable, Assessi ng Officer after recording reasons can 
change the same but usage of data of 3 years is not  a determining factor as to who the 
tested party should be. Moreover, the assessee has provided single year date during 
course of proceedings before Transfer Pricing Offic er. Here method to be adopted is 
TNMM and broad comparability is sufficient. Hence, I hold that the Transfer Pricing 
Officer has wrong in not holding IKS Inc as not tes ted party in the case.”  
 
017.  The OECD guideline states that choice of the tested party should be constant with the 
functional analysis of the transaction. Generally, the tested party is the one to which a transfer 
pricing method can be applied in the most reliable manner and for which the most reliable 
comparable can be found and further it would be mos t often the party that is the less complex 
functional analysis. UN transfer pricing guidelines  are also on the similar lines. Further, the 
Indian Jurisprudence is also on the similar princip les. Therefore, the principle emerges that it is 
better if a tested party is taken whose functions a re less complex in nature, does not own any 
intangible generally and the results which can be v erified by using reliable data base. In the 
present case, the foreign Associated Enterprises is  admittedly least complex functions and does 
not know any intangible and further the assessee ha s used the Standard and Poor’s CompStat 
and Merchant Database. The comparability analysis s hows that the total population of 285 
companies was available with respect to market sale s support and customer relationship services 
and 940 companies were available in provision of re venue cycle management services by using 
one source global business process database. Thus, foreign Associated Enterprises satisfied all 
the criteria for being taken as a tested party. The  learned Transfer Pricing Officer merely 
rejected the same as Associated Enterprises is loca ted in different geographical locations. We do 
not find it a proper justification by the learned T ransfer Pricing Officer to reject the foreign 
Associated Enterprises as a tested party. Ld CIT (A ) order is affirmed. 
 
9. From the above, we are of the view that a consis tent approach has to be taken in 
case of no variation in the facts. It is now a sett led proposition that a foreign AE can be 
considered as a tested party for the reason that it  has a least complex function and the 
information about the comparable are easily accessi ble. The ld. TPO has not given proper 
justification for rejecting the AE to a tested part y. We hereby allow ground nos. 1 to 14 
raised by the assessee on the transfer pricing adju stment.8 
IT(TP)A No. 2222/Mum/2017 (A.Y.2012-13) 
Inventurus Knowledge Solutions Private Limited vs. Asst. CIT  
 
 10. Ground nos. 15, 16 & 17 pertains to the disallo wance of contribution made 
towards PF & ESIC. As these grounds are covered by the decision of the Hon'ble Apex 
Court in the case of Checkmate Services Pvt. Ltd. vs. CIT  (in Civil Appeal No. 2833 of 
2016 vide order dated 12.10.2022), wherein it was h eld that belated payment of PF & 
ESIC after the due date prescribed under the releva nt Act warrants disallowance u/s. 
36(1)(v)(a) of the Act. By respectfully following t he said decision, we confirm the 
disallowance made by the lower authorities. We here by dismiss ground nos. 15, 16 & 17 
raised by the assessee. 
 
11. Ground nos. 18, 19 & 20 requires no adjudicatio n.  
 
12. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee  is partly allowed.  
Order pronounced in the open court on 22.02.2023 
 
 
                                   Sd/-                                                                    Sd/- 
 
                      (Prashant Maharishi)                                          (Kavitha Rajagopal ) 
                     Accountant Member                                              Judicial Member 
Mumbai; Dated :  22.02.2023 
Roshani , Sr. PS 
Copy of the Order forwarded  to  :   
1. The Appellant  
2. The Respondent 
3. The CIT(A) 
4. CIT - concerned 
5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai 
6. Guard File 
                                                                BY ORDER, 
  
       
                                                                              
(Dy./Asstt.  Registrar) 
ITAT, Mumbai