M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
1 
 IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
      Hyderabad  ‘ A ‘  Bench, Hyderabad  
  
 
Before S hri Laliet Kumar, Judicial Member  
AND 
Shri Laxmi Prasad Sahu , Accountant Member  
 
 
                         
 
Appellant by : Shri A.V. Raghuram.  
 
Respondent  by : Shri T. Sunil Goutam  
   
Date of Hearing  :  21.04.2022  
 
Date of Pronouncement  :    27.04.2022  
 
                        O R D E R 
 
PER BENCH :  
 
These are the set of five a ppeals  filed by the  appellant/  
assessee  feeling  aggrieved by the separate orders passed by  
Commissioner of  Income T ax (Appeals) – 10, Hyderabad  for different 
assessment years .  Since  the grounds raised in  all the ap peals are 
identical, therefore, we are reproducing hereinbelow the grounds Sl. 
No ITA No   Assessme nt 
Year  Appellant / Assessee  Respon-
dent 
1 25/Hyd/20 18 
 2015 -16 M/s. PACC Container 
Line Pvt. Ltd. 
Singapore, Rep., by its 
Indian Agent M/s. J.M. 
Baxi & Co.,  
Muthukur ,  Nellore.  
 
PAN : AAG CP0145G  
(Agent – AAAFJ5 198E)  ITO ( Inter -
national 
Taxation ), 
Nellore  2 26/Hyd/20 18 2015-16 
3 27/Hyd/2018  2015-16 
4 550/Hyd /2021 2014-15 
5 551/Hyd/20 21 2018-19M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
2 
 raised by the assessee  in ITA No.25/Hyd/2018 for A.Y. 2015 -16 which 
are as under :  
 
 
 
2. We first  take up ITA 25/Hyd/2018 for A.Y. 2015 -16 for 
adjudic ating the same   for the sa ke of convenience.  
2.1 At the outset,  the ld. DR had drawn our attention to section 
172 of the Act under whic h the order was passed by the Assessing 
Officer which provides as under :  
172. (1) The provisions of this section shall, notwithstanding anything 
contained in the other p rovisions of t his Act, apply for the purpose of the levy 
and recovery of tax in the ca se of any ship, belonging to or chartered by a non -
resident, which carries passengers, livestock, mail or goods shipped at a port 
in Indi a unless th e Income -tax Officer i s satisfied th at there is an agent of the 
non-resident from whom the tax will be recov erable under the other provisions 
of this Act.M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
3 
 (2) Where such a ship carries passengers, livestock, mail or goods shipped at 
port in Indi a, one -sixth of the amount paid o r payable on a ccount of such 
carriage to the owner or the charterer or to any person o n his behalf, whether 
that amount is paid or payable in or out of India, shall be deemed to be income 
accruing in India to the owner char terer on ac count of such carriage . 
(3) Before t he departure from any port in India of any such ship, the master of 
the ship shall prepare and furnish to the Income -tax Officer a return of the full 
amount paid or payable to the owner or charterer or any per son on his behalf, 
on account of the carriage o f all passengers, livestock, mail or goods shipped 
at that port since th e last arrival of the ship thereat :  
Provided  that where the Income -tax Officer is satisfied that it is not possible for 
the master of th e ship to f urnish the return requ ired by this s ub-section before 
the departure of the ship from the port and provided t he master of the ship has 
made satisfactory arrangements for the filing of the return and payment of the 
tax by any other person on his b ehalf, the Income -tax Officer may , if the retur n 
is filed within thirty days of the departure of the ship, deem the fil ing of the 
return by the person so authorised by the master as sufficient compliance with 
this sub -section.  
(4) On receipt of the return,  the Income -tax Officer shall ass ess the income  
referred to in sub -section (2) and determine the sum payable as tax the reon at 
the 1[rate or rates in force] applicab le to the t otal income of a compa ny which 
has n ot made the arrangements referred to in  section 194  and such sum shall 
be payable by the master of the ship.  
(5) For the purpose  of determining the tax payable unde r sub -section (4), the 
Income -tax Officer may call for such accounts or documents as he may require.  
(6) A port clearance shall not be granted to the ship until the Collector of 
Customs, or other officer duly authorised to grant the same, is satisfied that  
the tax assessable under this section has been duly paid or that satisf actory 
arrangements have been made for the payment thereof.  
(7) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the owner or charterer  of 
a ship from claiming before the expiry of t he assessment year relevant to the 
previous year in which the date of de parture of the ship from the Indian port 
falls, that an assessment be made of his total income of the previous year and 
the tax payable o n the basis  thereof be determined in accordance  with the 
other provisions of this Act, and if he so claim, any payment made under this 
section in respect of the passengers, livestock, mail or goods shipped at Indian 
ports during that previous year shall be  treated as  a payment in advance of 
the tax lev iable for that assessment year, and the difference between the sum 
so pa id and the amount of tax found payable by him on such assessment shall 
be paid by him or refunded to him, as the case may be.M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
4 
 (8) For the  purposes o f this section, the amount referred to in sub -section (2) 
shall include the amount paid or payable by way of  demurrage charge or 
handling charge or any other amount of similar natu re. 
3. It was submitted by the ld. AR that there is no provision for 
filing of the appeal against the order pass ed by the Assessing Officer 
u/s 172 of the Act either before the Commiss ioner of  Income Tax 
(Appeals ) or before the Tribunal.  He had drawn our attention to section 
246 of the I.T. Act which provides as under : 
“Appealab le orders.  
246. (1) Subject to the provis ions of sub -section (2), any assessee aggrieved by 
any of the follo wing orders of an Assessing Officer (other than the Deputy 
Commissioner) may appeal to the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) before the 
1st d ay of June,  2000 against such order — 
 (a) an order a gainst the assessee, where the assessee denies his liability to be 
assessed under this Act, or an intimation under sub -section (1) or sub -section 
(1B) of  section 143 , where the assessee objects to the making of adjustments, 
or any order of assessment under sub -section (3) of  section 143  or section 144 , 
where the assessee objects to the amount of income assessed, or to the 
amount of tax determined, or to the amount of loss computed, or t o the statu s 
under which he is assessed;  
 (b) an ord er of assessment, reassessment or recomputation under  section 
147 or section 150 ; 
 (c) an order under  section 154  or section 155  having the effe ct of enhancing the 
assessment or reducing a refund or an order ref using to allow the claim made 
by the assessee under either of the said sections;  
 (d) an order made under  section 163  treating the assessee as the agent of a non -
resident;  
 (e) an order under sub -section (2) or sub -section (3) of  section 170 ; 
 (f) an order unde r section 171 ; 
 (g) any order under clause (b) of sub -section (1) or under sub -section (2) or sub-
section (3) or  sub-sectio n (5) of  section 185 in respect of any assessment for 
the assessment year commencing on or before the 1st day of April, 1992;  
 (h) an o rder cancelling th e registrat ion of a firm under sub -section (1) or un der 
sub-section (2) of section 186 in respect of any assessment for  the assessment 
year commencing on or before the 1st day of April, 1992;  
  (i) an order under  section 201 ; 
  (j) an order under  section 216  in respect of any assessment for the assessment 
year commencing on th e 1st day o f April, 1988 or any earlier assessment 
year; 
 (k) an order under  section 237 ;M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
5 
  (l) an order imposing a penalty under — 
  (i) section 221 , or 
 (ii) section 271 , section 271A , section 271B , section 272A , section 
272AA  or section 272BB ; 
(iii) section 272 , section 272B  or section 273 , as they stood immediately b efore the 
1st day of April, 1989, in respect of any assessment for the assessment year 
commencing on the 1st day of April, 1988 or any earlier assessment years.  
(1A) Not withstanding anything contained in sub-section  (1), every appeal filed, 
on or after the  1st day of October, 1998 but before the 1st day of June, 2000, 
before the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) and any matter arising out of or 
connected with such appeal and which is so pending shall stand tra nsferred 
to the Commissioner (Appeals) and the Commi ssioner (Appeals) may proceed 
with such appeal or matter from the s tage at which it was on that day.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1), any asses see 
aggrieved by any of the followi ng orders ( whether made before or after the 
appointe d day) may appeal to the Commissioner (Appeals) before the 1st day 
of June, 2000 against such order — 
 (a) an intimation or order specified in sub -section (1) where such intimation is sent 
or such order is  made by th e Deputy Commissioner in exercise of the powers 
or functions conferred on or assigned to him under  section 120  or section 124 ; 
 (b) an order specified in clauses (a) to (e) (both i nclusive) and clauses (i) to (l) (both 
inclusive) of sub -section (1) or an order under  section 104 , as it stood 
immediately before the 1st day of April, 1988 in res pect of any assessment for 
the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1987 or any ea rlier 
assessment year made against the a ssessee, be ing a company;  
 (c) an order of assessmen t made after the 30th day of September, 1984, on the 
basis of the d irections issued by the Deputy Commissioner under  section  
144A; 
 (d) an order made by the Deputy Commissioner under  section 154 ; 
(da) an order of assessment made by an A ssessing Officer under clause (c) 
of section 158BC , in respect of s earch initiated under  section 132  or books of  
account, o ther documents or any assets requisitione d under  section 132A , on 
or after the 1st day of January, 1997;  
(db) an order imposing a penalty under sub -section (2) of  section 158BFA ; 
 (e) an order imposing a penalty under  section 271B  or section 271BB ; 
(ee) an order made by a Deputy Commissioner imposing a penalty under  section 
271C , section 271D  or section 271E ; 
 (f) an  order made  by a Deputy Commissioner or a Deputy Dir ector imposing a 
penalty under  section 272A ; 
(ff) an order made by a Deputy Commissioner imposing a penalty unde r section 
272AA ; 
 (g) an or der imposing a penalty under Chapter XXI by the Income -tax Officer or 
the Assistant Commission er where such penalty has been imposed with  the 
previo us approval of the Deputy Commissioner un der sub -section (2) of  section 
274;M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
6 
  (h) an order made by an Assessin g Officer (other than Deputy Commissioner) 
under the p rovisions of this Act in the case of such  person or classes of 
persons as the Board may, having regard to th e nature of the cases, the 
complexities involved and other relevant considerations, direct.  
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1 ), the Board or the 
Principal Director Ge neral or Director General, or the Principal Chief 
Commissioner or C hief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or 
Commissioner if so authorised by the Board, may , by order in writing, transfer 
any appeal which is pe nding before a Deputy Commissioner (Appea ls) and 
any matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and  which is so 
pending, to the Commissioner (Appeals) if the Board or, as the case may be, 
the P rincipal Director General or Director Gener al or Princ ipal Chief 
Commissioner or Chief Commissi oner or Principal Commissioner or 
Commissioner (at the request of t he appellant or otherwise) is satisfied that it 
is necessary or expedient so to do having rega rd to the nature of the case, the 
complexit ies involve d and other relevant considerations and t he Commissioner 
(Appeals) may proceed with such appeal or matter, f rom the stage at which it 
was before it was so transferred:  
Provided  that the appellant may demand that before proceeding further with 
the appeal or  matter, the previous proceeding or any p art thereof be re -opened 
or that he be reheard.  
Explanation. —For th e purposes of this section, — 
 (a) "appointed day" means the 10th day of July, 1978, being the day appointed 
under section 39 of the Finan ce (No. 2) Act, 1977 (29 of 1977);  
 (b) "status" mea ns the category under which the assessee is assessed as 
"individual ", "Hindu undivided family" and so on. ” 
 
4. Ld. DR  had also drawn our attention to section 253 of the 
Income Tax Act whereby the power to the Tribu nal was provided to 
hear and adjudicate the ap peal if arise out of the various orders 
passed by the Assessin g Officer / Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals).  For compl eteness of the record, we are reproducing 
section 25 3 of the Act wh ich reads as under :  
 
“Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal.  
 
253. (1) A ny assessee aggrieved by any of the following orders may app eal to 
the Appellate Tribunal against such order — 
 (a) an order passed by a Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) before the 1st day of 
October, 1998 or, as  the case may be, a Commissioner (Appeals) under  section 
154, section 250 , section 270A , section 271 , section 271A , section 
271J or section 272A ; orM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
7 
   
(b) an order passed by  an Assessing Officer under clause (c) of  section 158BC , 
in respect of search initiated under  section 132  or books of account, othe r 
documents or any assets requisitioned under  section 132 A, after the 30th day 
of June, 1995, but before the 1st day of January, 1997; or  
(ba) an order passed by an  Assessing Officer under sub -section (1) of  section 
115VZ C; or 
 
 (c) an order passed by a Principal Commis sioner or 
Commissioner  54[under  section 12A A or section 12AB ] or unde r clause (vi) of 
sub-section (5) of  section 80 G or under  section 263  or under section 270A  or 
under  section 271  or under  section 272A  or an order passed by him 
under  section 154  amending his order under  section 263  or an order passed by 
a Principal Chief Commis sioner or C hief Commissioner or a Principal Director 
General or Director General or a Principal Director or Director un der section 
272A ; or 
 
 (d) an order passed by  an Assessi ng Officer under sub -section (3), of  section 
143 or section 14 7 or section 153A  or section 153C  in pursuance of the 
directions of the  Dispute Re solution Panel or an order passed under  section 
154 in respect of such order;  
 
 (e) an order passed by an Assessing Officer under sub -section (3) of  section 
143 or section 147  or section 153A  or section 153C  with the approval of the 
Principal Commissioner or Commissioner as referred to in sub -section (12) 
of section 144BA  or an order passed under  section 154  or section 155  in respect 
of such o rder; 
 
 (f) an order passed by the presc ribed authority under sub -clause (iv) or sub -
clause (v) or sub -clause (vi) or sub -clause (via) of  clause (23 C) of section 10 . 
 
(2) The Principal Commissioner or Comm issioner may, if he objects to any order 
passed by a Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) before the 1s t day of Oc tober, 
1998 or, as the case may be, a Commissioner (Ap peals) under  section 
154 or section 250 , direct the Assessing Officer to  appeal to the Appellate 
Tribunal against the order.  
 
(2A) [***]  
 
(3) Every appeal under sub -section (1) or sub -section (2) shall be filed within 
sixty days of the date on which the order sou ght to be a ppealed against is 
communicated to the assessee or to th e Principal Commissioner or 
Commissioner, as the cas e may be :  
 
Provided  that in respect of any appeal under clause (b) of sub -section (1), this 
sub-section shall have effect as if for the words "sixt y days", the words "thirty 
days" had been substituted.  
 
(3A) [***]M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
8 
 (4) The Assessing Officer or the assesse e, as the case may be, on receipt of 
notice that an appeal against the order of the Commissioner (Appeals), has been 
preferred under sub -section (1)  or sub -section (2) by the other party, may, 
notwithstandi ng that he may not have appealed against such orde r or any part 
thereof, within thirty days of the receipt of the notice, file a memorandum of 
cross -objections, verified in the prescribed  manner, ag ainst any part of the order 
of the Commissioner (Appeals),  and such memorandum shall be disposed of by 
the A ppellate Tribunal as if it were an appeal presented within the time 
specified in sub -section (3).  
 
(5) The Appellate Tribunal may admit a n appeal or  permit the filing of a 
memorandum of cross -objections afte r the expiry of the relevant period referred 
to in sub-section (3) or sub -section (4), if it  is satisfied that there was sufficient 
cause for not presenting it within that period.  
(6) An  appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in the prescribed form55 and 
shall be verified in the pres cribed manner and shall, in the case of an appeal 
made, on or after the 1st day of October, 19 98, irrespe ctive of the date of 
initiation of the assessment proceedin gs relating thereto, be accompanied by a 
fee of, — 
 
 (a) where the total income of the assesse e as computed by the Assessing 
Officer, in the case to which the appeal relates, is one hundr ed thousand  rupees 
or less, five hundred rupees,  
 (b) where the total i ncome of the assessee, computed as aforesaid, in  the case 
to which the appeal relates is mor e than one hundred thousand rupees but not 
more than two hundred thousand rupees, one thousan d five hund red rupees,  
 (c) where the total income of the assessee, com puted as aforesaid, in the case 
to which the app eal relates is more than two hundred thousand rupees, one per 
cent of the assessed income, subject to a maximum of ten thousand rupees,  
 (d) where t he subject matter of an appeal relates to any matter, other than 
those specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) , five hundred rupees:  
 
Provided  that no fee shall be payable in the case of an appeal referred to in sub -
section (2), or, sub -section (2 A) as it st ood before its amendment by the Finance 
Act, 2016, or, a mem orandum of cross objections referred to in sub -section (4).  
 
(7) An application for st ay of demand shall be accompanied by a fee of five 
hundred rupees.  
 
56[(8) The Central Government may make a sc heme, by notification in the Official 
Gazette,  for the purposes of appeal to the Appe llate Tribunal under sub -section 
(2), so as to impart greater efficiency, transparency and account ability by — 
 (a) optimising utilisation of the resources through economie s of scale and 
functional specialisation;  
 (b) introducing a team -based mechanism for  appeal to the Appellate Tribunal, 
with dynamic jurisdiction.  
 
(9) The Central Government may, for  the purpos e of giving effect to the scheme 
made under sub -section (8), by  notification in the Official Gazette, direct  that 
any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply or shall apply with suchM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
9 
 exceptions, modifications and adaptations as may be spec ified in th e 
notification:  
Provided  that no direction shall be issued afte r the 31st day of March, 2022.  
 
(10) Every no tification issued under sub -section (8) a nd sub -section (9) shall, as 
soon as may be after the notification is issued, be laid before eac h House of 
Parliament.]  
 
5. On the basis of the above, ld.DR  had submitted that neither 
the CIT(A) nor this Tribunal is empowered to adjudicate these 
appeals against the order passed under section 172 of the Act.  
Therefore, the present set of  appeals are not main tainable.  
 
6. The ld.DR seeks time to file th e written submissions and it 
was submitted as under :  
 
1. On the i ssue of main tainability of appeal, the revenue has not preferred 
an appeal or cross objection as the cas e was covered under low tax 
effect,  it is p rayed that the learned CIT(A) erred in admitting appeal filed 
against the order passed u/s.172(4) as this is not an appea lable order 
before CIT(A) as per section 246A of the ITAct  and by extension of the 
same, not  appealable before ITAT.  
 
2. The logic  behind t his is that the assessee is eligible to question the order 
under sect ion 172(4) under section 172(7) and the  AO is bound  to pass 
an order under section 143(3) which is an appealable matter. 
Accordingly, there is no prejudice caused to the assessee  by consi dering 
an order section 172(4). This understanding is line with the j udgement of  
Hon’ble Supreme Court in th e case of A. S. Glittre (1997) 91 Taxman 286, 
wherein it w as held that the proceedings u/s 172(4) are sum mary or 
adhoc proceedings. It is a right con ferred upon the AO to levy and recover 
tax on the freight paid toward s ship belonging to non -resident. Anoth er 
right is given to the assessee u/s 172(7) to opt for the regular 
assessment and the AO is bound to ma ke such assessment. The relevant 
extract is as under – 
 
“6. The scheme of section 172 appears to be this:  
Section  172(1) gives a right to the ITO to lev y and recove r tax in the case 
of any ship belonging to a non -resident, in a summary manner (ad hoc 
asses sment) notwithstanding anything con tained in  the other provisions 
of the Act. It is an absolute right conferred o n the assessing authority. 
The assessee  has no righ t to object to the same. Normally, this will beM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
10 
 assessment of the assessee for the year. But , under section 172(7), a 
right is given to the assessee to claim before the expiry of the assessment 
year releva nt to the previous year in which the da te of depart ure of the 
ship from the Indian port falls, that an assessment, according to the 
provisions of the Act, in a regular manner be made. Thu s, a right is given 
to the assessee to opt for a regular assessment a lthough a 'rough and 
ready' or a 'summa ry assessmen t' has already been made under section 
172(4). It is a valuable right. If the assessee exerc ises the right conferred 
on him und er sectio n 172(7), the ITO is bound to make an assessment of 
the total income of the previous year of the assessee an d the tax pa yable 
on the basis thereof "should be determined in accordance with the other 
provisions of the Act" and any payment made under  the sect ion (earlier) 
'shall be treated as a payment in advance of the tax' l eviable for that 
assessment year and th e difference  between the sum so paid and the 
amount of tax found payable by him on such assessment, shal l be paid 
to the assessee or refund ed to him . The ad hoc assessment made under 
section 172(4) is superseded and a  'regular assessment' is made as per 
the provisions  of the Act. In such a case, it is only proper and appropriate 
to hold that all 'the provisi ons' of the Act in the determinatio n of the tax 
liability including the ancillary or incidental or consequential matters 
pertaining to it are necessaril y attracted.  [Emphasis supplied]”.  
 
3. Further, Supreme Court of India in the case of Raghunath Rai Bareja and 
Another vs Punjab National Bank  and Othe rs on 6 December, 2006  vide 
CASE NO.:Appeal (civil) 5634 of 2006  has categorically stated that the 
jurisdict ion of the t ribunal cannot be enlarged and th ere should be a 
strict interpretation of the scope of juris diction as per statute.  
 
4. On jurisdi ction, the  assessee has placed reliance on the order of Income 
Tax Appellate Tr ibunal – Chennai in the case of Msc Ag ency (India) P Ltd. 
vs Department Of Income Ta x vide                              I.T.A. No. 
871/Mds/2010 for Assessment Year :2007 -08, howe ver, the s aid 
judgement did no take into consideration the judgements of Raghun ath 
Rai Bareja and Another vs Punjab N ational Bank and Others on 6 
December, 2006 vide CASE NO.: Appeal (civil) 5634 of 2006  and the case 
of A.S. Glittre (1997) 91 Taxman 286 . 
 
5. On merit , it is seen that the assess ee is contesting the order under 
section 17 2(4) on the quest ion of interplay betw een article 8  and article 
24 of DTAA. This ground of appeal is not sustainable as Hon’ble 
Supreme Court i n the case of A.S. Glittre (1997) 91 Taxman 286, has 
held that the proceedings u/s 172(4) are summary or adhoc pr oceedings , 
it further stated that it is a right con ferred upon the AO to levy and 
recover tax on the freight paid towards ship belonging to non -resident. 
The right given to the assessee u /s 172(7) is to opt for the regular 
assessment , in this case, the ass essee has surrend ered the right underM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
11 
 section 172(7 ), accordingly, he cannot agitate the applicability of article 
24 in appeal now against the observations of Supreme court. In the 
presen t case the order is passed u/s 172(4) , the actual taxability or 
otherwise can only be  determined u/s 143(3 ) of the I.T.  Act. 
 
6. Art 8 of DTAA talks about the profits, Art 24 talks about income and 
section 172(2) says about the amount paid or payab le on acco unt of such 
carriage. The terminologies employed carry different and  specific 
meanings.  Art 8 can only be e xamined duri ng the assessment 
proceedings u/s 143(3) where the profits are required to be taxed. Art 24 
is employed conjointly with section  172(2) wh ich speak about the income 
in the nature of receipt. Thus under 172( 4), the entire rece ipts are 
taxable, un less they ar e remitted under Art 24. As stated earlier 172(4) 
proceedings are only ad -hoc proceedings or  summary proceedings.  
 
7. The wording s of secti on 172 are plain and do not invite any other 
interpretation. Invokin g the provisions of section 172, the AO  was fully 
justified in taxing the freight receipts. Further what is retained by the 
agent is Address Co mmission which is covered under the  sub-section 8 
of 172. For the purpose of sub -section 8, the amount referred s hall 
include the amo unt paid or payable  by way of d emurrage charge or 
handling charge or any other amount of similar nature. Address 
Commission  is thus covered under 172(8).  
 
 
8. Further,  if the balance amount is not brought to tax either in India or 
Singapor e, then it would be th e case of Double Non-Taxation , irrespective 
of the fact whether the amount is paid or payable in or out of India. Such 
amount is deemed to be income accruin g in India  to the owner or the 
charterer. This has been held by Hon’ble HC of Delhi in Emirates 
Shipping Line, FZE in  WP(Civil) N o.9780/2009 dated 26/07/2012. The 
relevant extract is as under – 
 
13. The aforesaid Section is a special provision  for levy and  recovery of 
tax from non -resident owners and charterers of ships. The tax is paid at 
flat rate of 7.5% by the non -resident owners and charters which carry 
passengers, live stock, mail or goods. The tax is payable on the account 
of such carria ge, whether o r not the amount is paid or payable in or out 
of India. The amount payable or paid is deemed to be income accruing in  
India to the owner or the charterer. Under  Section 172(3) , 
before  depart ure of ship, a return i s required to be filed by the Master of 
the ship specifying the amou nt paid or payable. The proviso provide s 
and states that return may not be filed under  Section 172(3) , where the  
Master of th e ship has  made satisfactory arrangements for filing of the 
return and payment  of tax by any other person on his beha lf. On the 
return being filed under  Section 172(3) , the Assessing Officer  has to 
asses s the inco me referred to in sub -section (2) and pass an order 
under  Section 172(4)  of the Act determining the tax payable. The saidM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
12 
 sum is payable by the Master of the ship, unless arrangem ent has been 
made under  Section 194 . For the purpose of the said determinati on, the 
Assessing Officer can call for documents and/or accounts as he may 
require. Port clearance cannot be granted unless th e Collector o f Customs 
or other officer authorized, is satisfied that the tax assessable un der the 
said Section has been duly paid  or satisfactory arrangements have been 
made for payment thereof.  
14. A reading of the said Section would show that  Section 
172(4)  postulates a summary assessment  of payment of tax payable 
under  Section 172  before the ship leaves India. This is necessary 
because after the s hip leaves In dia, it wo uld be difficult; (if not 
impossible), to recover the tax. The sect ion postulates that the ship can 
be allo wed to leave when satisfactory arrangements have been made for 
filing of  return and payment of tax. These are special provisio ns which 
have  been enac ted keeping in view the specific need and requirement 
relating to i nternational shipping and their liabilit y to pay income tax in 
India .” 
7. Per contra, ld. AR has drawn our attention to the order of the 
Tribun al in the case of ITO  (Internation al Taxation)  Vs. MSC Agency 
(India)  (P) Ltd., wherein the identical issue was con sidered by the 
Tribunal and the Tribun al had decided the issue in Para Nos. 4 to 6 as 
under :M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
13 
 8. We have heard the rival contentions  of bo th the parties  and 
perused the materia l available  on record.  In our view, the issue of 
maintainability  of the appea l before the Tribunal had categoricall y been 
adjudicated by the co -ordinate  bench of the  Tribunal in the case of MSC 
Agency (India) (P) Ltd (supra) and therefore, we do not agree  with the 
contention of the ld.DR that the appeal s filed by the assessee are not 
maintainable before us.  Accordingl y, the objection raised by the 
Revenue  about the mai ntainability of the appeal s is dismissed.  
Further, w e may point out that the present appeals are  filed by the 
assessee after feeling aggrieved by the separate order s passed by the 
CIT(A) for non -grant o f relief and the ld.CIT(A) has not dismissed the 
appeal s on account  of non -maintainability of the appeal s before him. 
Ld.CIT(A) has decided the issue  on merit , hence, the impugned  order s 
passed by the ld.CIT(A) fal ls within the realm of s ection 253  of the 
Income Tax Act , again st which the assessee had preferred appeal before  
us.  Accordi ngly, the preliminary objection raised by the Revenue is 
dismissed.  
9. The ld.AR  in the a ssessment order had submitted that the 
assessee had denie d the be nefit of Article 8  of Double Taxation 
Avoidance Agreement (hereinafter referred as “DTAA”) and he ha d 
drawn our attention to Article 8 of India - Singapore Tr eaty which 
provides as   under :  
ARTICLE 8  
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT  
1. Profits derived by an enterpr ise of a Contracti ng S tate from the operation of 
ships or aircraft in international traf fic sha ll be taxa ble only in that State.M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
14 
 2. The provisions of paragraph 1  shall also  apply to profits from  the participation 
in a pool, a joint business or an internationa l operating agency  engaged in the 
operation of sh ips or aircraft . 
3. Interest on funds  connected with the o peration of ships or aircraft in 
international traffi c shall be regarded as profits de rived from the operation of 
such ships or aircraft, and the provi sions of Art.11 sh all not apply in relation to 
such interest.  
4. 4. For the purposes of th is Article, profi ts from the operation of ships or aircraft 
in interna tional traf fic shall mean profits  derived from the transportation by sea 
or air of passengers, mai l, livestock or go ods carried on by the owners or 
lessees or ch arterers of the ships or aircraft, includi ng profits from :  
(a) the sale of tickets for such trans portation o n behalf of other ente rprises;  
(b) the incidental lease of ships or aircraft used in such transportation;  
(c) the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and re lated 
equipment f or the transport of containers) in connection with su ch 
transpor tation; and  
(d) any other  activity directly connected with such transportation. ”  
 
10. It was submitted by t he ld.AR that Article 8  of DTAA of India  
– Singapore  will have overriding effect over the provisions of the Income 
Tax Act in terms of secti on 90 of th e I.T. Act. In view of the overriding 
effect,  the profit derived by the assessee  from the operation of the ships 
shall be taxable in Singapore only.   The Assessing Officer, was bound 
to apply the  provis ions of  India  – Singapore Treaty even at  the stage of 
passing the summary order u/s 172 (4) of the Act.  It was further 
submitted that a s Article 8 is fully applicable, the occasion for 
applicability  of Article 24 does not arise .  It was submitt ed that the 
Assessing Officer had wrongly invoked Ar ticle 24 of  the DTAA for the 
purposes of Limiting of  Relief to the assessee.  He has drawn our 
attenti on to Article 2 4 which is to the following effect :M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
15 
 “Article 24 – Limitation of R elief,” reads as fol lows:  
1. Where this Agreement provides (with or wit hout other conditions) that incom e 
from sources in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax , or taxe d at a 
reduced  rate in that Contracting State and under the laws in force in the  other 
Contracting S tate the said income is subject to tax by reference to the amou nt 
thereof which is re mitted to or received in that other Contracting State and not by 
refere nce to the ful l amount thereof, then the exemption or reduction of tax to be 
allowed under this Agre ement in the first -mentioned Contracting State shall  
apply to s o much  of the income a s is remitted to or received in that other 
Contracting State.  
2. Howev er, this limit ation does not apply to income derived by the Government 
of a Cont racting State or any  person approved by the competent authority of that 
State for t he purpose of this par agraph. The term "Government" includes its 
agencies and statuto ry bodie s.  
 
11. It was further submitted  by the ld.AR that as  per article 24,  
the appe llant is only liable to be tax ed on the receipt s which are 
received in In dia and the  amount remitte d to a ‘Contracting State’ is 
taxable . It was the case of the assessee that no amount was  received in 
India and the assessee , he had also drawn ou r atte ntion to the 
additional evidence  filed by the assessee  for this purposes,  wherein it 
was mentioned that the ag ent namely  Bertlin g Logistic, Germany,  
cargo booking agent , while remitting the freight  to the appellant has 
adjusted the commission and remitted only net freight . 
12. The Ld. AR had also drawn our attention to paragraph 8  of 
the rem and report  wherein the  assessing officer had mention ed as 
under :- 
“ 8.  In view of the above elaborate discussions it is clear that article 24 
squarely  applicable to the fa cts of the present case. The claim made by 
the local agen t part of the f reight was not remitted to receiv ed in 
Singapore  due to adjustm ent of the same to the commission do not come 
to its rescue and hence it cannot be enter tained/accept able. Here in this 
case the local evide nce failed to prove that short remitted freight in 
question had been remitted to or re ceived in Sin gapore and of the  same 
to tax the re. Therefore the local agent  M/s J.M. Baxi & Co is not eligible 
for for  relief under DTAA  as per  its cla im ……….”M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
16 
 13.  Per contra, the ld.DR had submitted that the Assessing 
Officer as we ll as ld.CIT(A) had ri ghtly applied the DTAA in the present 
case and  our attention was drawn to Paras 3  to 8 of the assessment 
order which are to t he following  effect :   
 
 
14. Ld.DR . had fur ther drawn our attention to Paras 10. 2 to 
10.6 of the  order of CIT(A)  which are to th e following  effect:M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
17M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
18M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
19M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
20 
 15. We have heard the rival cont entions of the both the parties 
and perused the material av ailable on record.  The bare reading of 
Article 8 of I ndia - Singapore Treaty make  it abundantly clear t hat the 
profit derived by t he en terprise of the “Contract State” from the 
operations of ships  shall be taxable only in that state , namely 
Singapore .  In the present case, the Ass essing O fficer had ment ioned in 
the assessment  order that the assessee is a re sident of Singapore and 
as per the assessment order , the entire fre ight earned by the freight 
beneficiaries  of the assessee is exempt from tax in India and is required 
to be taxed in Sin gapore.  Und oubtedly, the Article 8 governs the field, 
and the  assessee i s entitled to the benefi t of Article 8 of India - 
Singapore T reaty.   
16. It is the case of the Revenue  as well as the assessee  that the 
provisions of DTAA  are applicable even at the stage of passing order u/s 
172(4) of the Act. Only on account  of the abov e said fact, the Assessing 
Officer had given the benefit  of the amount remitted / received at 
Singapore to the assessee , in case the Assessing Officer was not of the 
opinion that DTAA is not applicable, then the entir e amount was 
required  to be t axed in India.  Therefore , there is no quarrel about the 
applicability  of Article 8 of DT AA and hence, the assessee  was required 
to be taxed in “Contract State ” namely, Singapore on the  profit earned 
by it.   However,  the Article 8 cannot be applied  on stand-alone  basis 
and t he effect to the other articles mentioned in DTAA more 
particularly, Article 24 was  required to be  given .  
17. As mentioned hereinabove Article 24 is lim iting the Relief 
only to the extent  of amount which is ‘remitted to ’ or ‘received ’ in that 
other Contracting State  and has not referred the full amount .   TheM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
21 
 literal me aning is required  to be given the word “remitted to or received ” 
while applying the Article 24 of DTAA .  By any stretch of reasoning , the 
word “remitted ” cannot be read  as accrue d for the purposes of Article 
24. Further, it is not the case of the assessee  before  the lower 
authorities  or befor e us that the entire amount was accrued  in favour of 
the assessee  at Singapore.   In the present  case, as per the und isputed 
fact f or the yea r under consideration , the agent f iled an application on 
29.09.2014 on behalf   of the company for g rant of   NOC in respect of 
Vessel “MV PAC ALKAID ”.  The vessel departed from Krishnapatnam 
Port on 09.10 .2014 to Houston, USA with a  cargo of 7302 .99 MT of 
Seamless Pipes.  The total fre ight rate was USD 88 p er MT which works 
out to t otal USD 642663.  However, in the proceedings, the agent 
claimed that the entire fr eight earned by the freight  beneficiary is 
exempt from tax in India in view of DTAA a nd therefo re, the necessary 
benefit be given  to the assessee .  The agent of the assessee  filed return 
on 07.11 .2014 u/s 172(3) o f the Act and  along with return, the copy of 
the bank account in support of the remittance of freight was also pl aced 
on record.    
18. It is an admitted case of the assesse e as well as the 
Assessing Officer  that there was short of remitt ance of USD 2 2,493 for 
the year unde r consideration and that was on account of commission @ 
3.5% of the gross amount.  In the additional evidence f iled by th e 
assessee  before ld.CIT(A) , the assessee  has placed on reco rd the 
invoices / receipts issued by Bertling at Pages 1 7 to 23 of the paper 
book to demons trate that the money was advanced  by the cargo  
commission agent and only the amount mentioned h ereinabove  i.e., 
USD 621169  was remitted to the assesse e at Singapore.  In our 
considered opinion,  for the present controversy, it is undoubt edly clearM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
22 
 that only the above said amount  USD 621169  was remitted to the 
Singa pore bank account an d the remaining amount i.e ., USD 22493  
subject matter of the appeal  was  not remitted to the Singapore bank 
account and was  allegedly adjusted towards the commission paid to 
the said Bertling.  Therefore, in our considered opinion, the  appellant  / 
assessee   is only  entitled to the  benefit of DTAA for the amount  remitted 
or received.  However, the case would have been different if the assessee  
had filed on record be fore us or before  the lower authorities , the return 
of income , whereby the assessee  had claimed the amount on  accrual 
basis and de bited the amount paid  USD 2 2,493  as commission in its 
books of account  or any other documents substantiating the claim .     
In the present case, there is  no doubt that the actual amount  received 
by the assessee  was  USD 621169  and t he remaini ng amount was 
neither receiv ed by the  assessee  nor accounted in its books of account , 
Hence the Assessing Officer  and the ld.CIT(A)  were right in applying 
Article 24 r .w. Article 8 and hence, we do not  find any merit and 
therefore, the appeal  of the asses see is required  to be rejected.  
 
19. We may fu rther point o ut that the ld.AR during the course of 
argument has not relied upon any other judgment.  However in the  
Paper Book filed by him, t here is a re ference to two decisions  namely, 
Alabra Ship ping Pvt. Ltd. Singapore Vs. ITO (International Tax ation) , 
Gandhid ham (ITA 39 2/RJT/2014 dt.09.10.2015 ) at Page 79 of the 
paper book and also the decision in the  case of Emirates Shippin g Line, 
FZE Vs. ADIT  (WP(C ivil) No.9780 of 2009 dt.26.07.2012 ) at Page  84 of 
the paper book.    In our opinion, the findin g recorded by the Tribunal in 
the first decision  namely Alabra Shipping Pvt. Ltd (supra) does not  
come to the rescue of the appel lant for the reasons mentioned  at Para 8M/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
23 
 of the said decision , which are sel f-explanat ory.  We are reproducing 
the said Para 8 herein below for rea dy reference.  
“8. As regards reliance of the authorities below on the decision  of this Tribunal, 
in the case of Abacus International (supra), suffice to say that it was in the 
context of  interest income of the assessee and there was noth ing on record to 
suggest that such an income was to be taxed in Singapore on accrual basis, 
rathe r than on receipt basis. The Assessing Officer thus derives no a dvantage 
from this decision. Having said tha t we may a dd that we are in complete 
agreement with  the coordinate ben ch that, in order to come out of the mischief 
of Article 24, the onus is on th e as sessee is to show that the amount is 
remitted to, or receive d in Singapore, but then such an onus is con fined to t he 
cases in which income in question is t axable in Singapore  on limited receipt 
basis rather than on comprehensive accrual basis. However,  in a case in 
which it can be demonstrated, as has been demonstr ated in the case before 
us, that the related  income is  taxable in Singapore on accrual basis an d not on 
remittance  basis, such an onus does not get triggered. ”  
 
 In the present case, as menti oned above, the asses see has 
not discharged his onus  as no document was filled in this regard.    
 
20. The s econd decision relied upon by the ld.AR in the pape r 
book namely, Emirates Shippin g Line, FZE Vs. ADIT  (supra)  is no t 
relevant for the purposes of determining the present controversy as the 
judgment is relevant to whether the provisions of DTAA can be invo ked 
for th e purposes of  determin ing at the stage  of application of section 
172(4) r.w.s 172 (7) of the Act or not.   
21. In the present case, the AO / ld.CIT(A) had a lready granted 
the benefit of DTAA to the assessee  as it has only restricted the benefit 
to the exten t of the am ount received, we do not find the judgment  in the 
case of Emirates Shippin g Line, FZE Vs. ADIT  (supra ) is of any use for 
the pu rpose of determin ing the present controversy.  No other judgment  
was cited by the ld.AR before us .  The refore, we do n ot find any m erit inM/s. PACC Container L ine Pvt. Ltd.  
 
 
 
24 
 this regard.   Accord ingly,  the appeal of assessee  in ITA 25/Hyd/2018 
for A.Y. 2015 -16 is dismissed.  
22. Now, coming t o the remaining appeals  i.e., ITA 
26/Hyd/2018, ITA 27/Hyd/2018 , ITA 550/Hyd/ 2021 and ITA 
551/Hyd/2021  which are identic al to the facts and issues raised in  
lead appeal  ITA 2 5/Hyd/2018 , we hold th at our decision would apply 
mutatis mutandis .  
23. In the result, all the appeal s of the assessee are dismissed.  A 
copy of this common ord er be placed in their respectiv e case file s. 
Order pronou nced in  the Open Court on    27th April, 2022 . 
 
 
 
                 Sd/-            Sd/- 
(LAXMI PRA SAD SAHU ) 
ACCOUN TANT MEMBER  (LALIET KUMAR )                   
JUDICIAL MEMBE R 
 
Hyderabad, da ted  27th April, 2022.  
TYNM/sps 
Copy to: 
 
S.No Addresses 
1 M/s. P ACC Contain er Lin e Pvt. Ltd. Singapore, Rep., by its 
Indian Age nt M/s. J.M. Baxi & Co . 
 
C/o. Sri K. Vasa ntkumar, Sri A.V.Rag huram, Sri P. Vin od & 
Ms. M. Neelima Devi, Advocate s, 610, Babukhan Estate, 
Bashe erbagh, Hyderabad – 1. 
2 ITO(Internat ional Taxatio n), Nellore . 
3 CIT(Appeals) -10, Hyderabad.  
4 CIT(IT  & TP), Hy derabad.  
5 DR, ITAT Hyde rabad Be nches  
6 Guard File  
By Orde r