IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
“I” BENCH, MUMBAI  
 
BEFORE SHRI  G.S. PANNU , PRESIDENT AND 
SHRI SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL, JUDICIAL MEMBER  
 
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
(Assessment Year : 2017–18)  ITA no. 1856/Mum./2022  
(Assessment Year : 2018–19) 
 
 
PDR Solutions FZC  
501, 5th Floor, I.T. Building no.3  
NESCO IT Park, SESCO Building  
Western Express Highway  
Goregaon (East), Mumbai 400 063  
PAN – AAGCP5504K   
……………. Appellant  
 
v/s 
 
Dy. Commissioner of  Income Tax  
International Taxation  
Circle –3(3)(2), Mumbai   
……………. Respondent  
 
Assessee by  :   Shri Porus Kaka a/w  
         Shri Divesh Chawla  
  Revenue by   :   Shri Amit Kumar Soni  
 
Date of Hearing – 21/12/2022   Date of Order – 30/12/2022  
 
O R D E R  
 
PER BENCH  
 
 
 The present  appeal s have  been filed by the assessee against  the 
separate impugned final assessment order s dated 31/05/2022 and 
23/05/2022 , passed under section 143(3) r/w section 144C(13) of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 ( „the Act ‟) by the Assessing Officer (‘ AO‟), pursuant to the 
separate directions issued by  the learned Dispute Resolution Panel –I, (‘learnedPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 2  DRP‟), under section 144C(5) of the Act for the assessment year 201 7–18 and 
2018–19, respectively . 
 
2. Since both appeals pertain to the same assessee and th e issues involved 
are also  common, therefore, as a matter of convenience, these appeals were 
heard together and are being disposed off by way of this consolidated order. 
With the consent of the parties, the assessee’s appeal for the assessment  year 
2017–18 is taken up as a lead case.  
 
ITA no.1855/Mum./2022  
Assessee’s Appeal – A.Y. 2017 –18 
 
3. In its appeal, the assessee has raised following grounds: – 
 
“On the facts, and in the circumstances of the case, and in law, the Appellant 
craves to prefer an appeal agai nst the order dated 31 May 2022 passed by the 
Deputy Commissioner of Income - tax (Int. Tax) -3(3)(2) (hereinafter referred to 
as the 'learned AO) under Section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of the 
Income -tax Act, 1961 on the grounds as set out herein:  
 
The following grounds are independent of, and without prejudice to, one 
another:  
 
GROUND 1: OBJECTION AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF INCOME FROM 
DOMAIN REGISTRATION SERVICES  
 
On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
(AO) erred in alleging that income from Domain Name Registration services is 
taxable as 'Royalty' under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act') 
and under the India - UAE treaty (tax treaty"). ). The AO based on his 
conclusion contended that the Appe llant is the owner of the domain name and   
is imparting the right to use in respect of a domain name thus erroneously 
considering it as  a „Trademark ‟. 
 
The Assessing Officer (AO) erred in understanding the fact that the domain 
name does not lie with the appellant, and accordingly, there is no question of 
imparting rights for further consideration, thus it cannot be classified as the 
trademark and cannot be termed as „ Royalty ‟. 
 
GROUND II: OBJECTION AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF INCOME FROM  
WEB HOSTING SERVICESPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 3  On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
('AO') erred in proposing that income from web hosting services is ta xable as 
'Royalty under Section 9(1Xvi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act') and under 
the India - UAE treaty (tax treaty') in the absence of any physical access or 
control or possession or independent right being granted by the appellant to 
the payer . 
 
The A ssessing Officer (AO) erred in concluding that the income from web 
hosting is interlinked to income from domain registration services and 
considered as royalty despite the fact that the said services are mutually 
exclusive and independent.  
 
GROUND III: OBJ ECTION AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF SPONSORSHIP 
INCOME  
 
On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
('AO") erred in concluding that the assessee did not provide substantial 
documents and information regarding the treatmen t of sponsorship and other 
income, as a business income in computation and alleging that it is clearly 
evident that assessee is hiding the fact with respect to same and claimed that 
the same should be added to the income of the assessee.  
 
The Assessing Off icer (AO) erred in ignoring the fact that the assessee had 
made sufficient disclosures and submitted proper evidence in support of its 
contention that there shall not be any addition made on account of Sponsorship 
Income due to the absence of Permanent Est ablishment in India . 
 
The assessing officer (AO) erred in law and in the fact that the income from 
Sponsorship is taxable as 'Business income' under the India -UAE tax treaty 
(„tax treaty') treating it as PE in India without giving adequate reasoning  / 
explanation for treating it as PE in India . 
 
The Appellant craves leave to add to, or alter, by deletion, substitution, 
modification, or otherwise, the above grounds of appeal, either before or during 
the hearing of the appeal. ” 
  
4. The brief facts of the case are: The assessee is incorporated in United 
Arab Emirates (‘ UAE‟) and is a tax resident of UAE. The assessee is engaged in 
the business of web presence, and sale of domain names to global customers 
through its B2B brands ‘ Logic Boxes ’, ‘Reseller Club ’, and B2C brand ‘ Big Rock ’. 
The B2B business represents the sale of domain names to domain name 
resellers, whereas B2C represents the sale of domains to third -party ultimate 
customers. The business of the assessee also comprises of providing web 
hosting service s whereby server  spaces are given on lease/hire to clients. ForPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 4  the year under consideration, the assessee e -filed its return of income on 
30/11/2017 declaring  a total  income of Rs. 8,10,94,810. The return of income 
filed by the assessee was selected for s crutiny and statutory notices under the 
Act were issued. In view of the international transactions entered into by the 
assessee with its associated enterprises, reference was made to the Transfer 
Pricing Officer for the determination of arm’s length price in respect of the said 
international transactions. The Transfer Pricing Officer drew no adverse 
inference in respect of the international transactions undertaken by the 
assessee during the year under consideration. During the year,  the assessee 
received the following income from India:  
  
Sr. 
No. Nature of Revenue  Amount (in INR)  
1. Licensing of Orderbox platform to a 
group entity  1,03,05,528/ – 
2. Licensing of brand and trademark  2,01,16,542/ – 
3. Receipt for sale of customer list and 
customer contracts  5,06,72,737/ – 
4. Date centre income  3,05,20,419/ – 
5. Domain sale income  27,41,96,969/ – 
6. Sponsorship income  64,91,659/ – 
 
 
The receipts at serial No. 4, 5 , and 6 were considered taxable by the 
Revenue and thus, the assessee is in appeal before us.  
 
5. The issue arising in ground No.  I, raised in assessee’s appeal, is 
pertaining to the addition on account of income from domain registration 
services.PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 5  6. The brief facts of the case pertaining to this issue are:  During the 
assessment proceedings, the assessee was asked to show cause as to why the 
income from domain sale income , inter -alia, should not be treated as royalty. 
In response thereto the assessee submitted that the domain name is an 
internet network addr ess that is readable in human language and can be 
obtained on first -come first -served basis. The assessee further submitted that  
assessee is not the owner of the domain name and therefore the question of 
transfer of any right in the said domain name cannot  arise. It was further 
submitted that  the domain name registration services are provided by 
Registrars who are accredited by Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and 
Numbers (‘ ICANN ‟), which is a non-profit organisation authorised by the United 
States D epartment of Commerce . It was submitted that  the assessee is a 
Registrar and is merely a facilitator of the domain name registration and not 
the user of the domain name. By referring to the Uniform Domain Name 
Dispute Resolution Policy, 1999, the assessee submitted that the Registrar or 
the Resellers do not own the domain name or  the trademark associated with 
the domain name and the rights if any vest with the registered domain name 
holder i.e. registrant and the trademark owner.  Further, the domain name 
registration  service  is a standard facility , which can be availed by anyone on 
payment of nominal fees . And, domain registration services are akin to the 
provision of registration services for registering the name of a Company wit h 
the Registrar of Companies, or more commonly, registering a motor vehicle 
with the Regional Transport Authority.  It was further submitted that in the 
event of trademark infringement suits filed by parties with regard to the use of 
domain names with mala fide intention, the Registrars/Reseller cannot be suedPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 6  since they did not have any right in the domain name which was registered by 
them as  a mere facilitator . 
 
7. The AO vide draft assessment order dated 26/09/2021 passed under 
section 143(3) of the Act did not agree with the submissions of the assessee 
and held that domain name registration is taxable in India as royalty because 
domain name is an ‘intangible asset ’ in the nature of ‘trademark ‟. The AO 
further held that the assessee is giving the client right to use its domain name 
for a fix ed period and for a fixed amount of time.  Further, the assessee is not 
selling the domain name but registering or renewing it, which clearly indicates 
that the assessee as a domain name services provider is the owner of the 
domain name and it is only providing the right to use the domain name to its 
clients. Accordingly , the AO treated the sum of Rs. 27,41,96,969 received by 
the assessee on account of domain name registration as royalty  under the 
provisions of the Act as well as the India UAE Double Taxation Avoidance 
Agreement (‘ DTAA‟ ) and added the same to the total income of the assessee.  
 
8. The assessee filed detailed objections before the learned DRP, inter -alia, 
against the addition made by the AO. Vide directions dated 07/03/2022 , issued 
under section 144C(5) of the Act, the learned DRP reject ed the objections filed 
by the assessee . In conformity with the directions issued by the learned DRP, 
the AO passed the impugned final assessment order dated 31/05/2022 , and 
assessed the income from domain name registration as royalty. Being 
aggrieved, the  assessee is in appeal before us.PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 7  9. During the hearing,  the learned Sr. Counsel, appearing for the assessee, 
submitted that  the assessee is a Registrar, who is authorised by ICANN  and 
acts as an intermediary in the entire process of domain name registration . 
Learned Sr. Counsel  by referring to the Registrar Accreditation Agreement 
between the assessee and ICANN as well as the Reseller Master Agreement 
between the assessee and the reseller submitted that the assessee neither 
grants domain names nor ha s any ri ght to customer data given to the 
Registry.  Further,  it was submitted that  the domain name is not an intellectual 
property right  of the assessee  and the right , of any sort, is only with the 
customer /registrant . The learned Sr. Counsel submitted that the role of the 
assessee is merely to check the domain name sought to be registered by the 
customer in the database maintained by the Registry.  
 
10. On the contrary, the learned Departmental Representative (‘ learned DR‟ ) 
vehemently relied upon the order passed by the lower authorities.  
 
11. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the material 
available on record. The issue to be considered is whether the income earned 
by the assessee, who is a Registrar, from domain name registration will be 
taxable as  royalty under the provisions of the Act or DTAA.  The domain name 
is an internet network address that is readable in human language. Domain 
names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System 
(‘DNS‟). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. In general, a 
domain name represents an Internet Protocol (‘ IP‟) resource.  Computers or 
any other internet resources communicate by using numbers, called IP 
addresses, to contact each other. Domain names serve to identify suchPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 8  internet resourc es with a text base label that is easier to memorise th an the 
numerical addresses used in the Internet Protocols . Domain names are also 
used a s simple identification labels to indicate ownership or control of a 
resource. Organisations can choose a domain n ame that corresponds to their 
name, helping internet users to reach them easily. Thus, with the domain 
name, an organisation named ABC can state its website as ‘ abc.com’ instead of 
123.876.321/abc/.  
 
12. The domain name registration process involves ICANN, Registry, 
Registrar , and Reseller. The role of each party in this process is as under:  
 
(a) ICANN is an organisation charged with overseeing the name and 
number systems of the Internet. In addition to ICANN , each Top -Level 
Domain ( „TLD‟) is maintained and serviced technically by an 
administrative organisation operating a registry.  
 
(b) The Registry is responsible for maintaining the database of names 
registered with the TLD it administers. ICANN  manages the TLD with the 
help of hundreds of domain name Registries spread throughout the 
world. Each of these Registries is certified by and subject to the direct 
supervision of ICANN. The role of the Registry operators within the 
internet ecosystem includes accepting registration request s and keepi ng 
the master database of all domain names registered in each TLDs. The 
Registry receives registration information from each domain name 
Registrar authorised to assign names in the corresponding TLD and 
publishes the information using a special service.  
 
(c) The Registrar is an entity that offer s domain name registration 
services to registrants in generic top -level domains.  The relationship 
between ICANN and every ICANN -accredited Registrar is governed by 
the Registrar Accreditation Agreements, which  sets out the obligation ofPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 9  both parties. The Registries and Registrars usually charge an annual fee 
for the service of delegating a domain name to a user and providing a 
default set of name servers.  
 
(d) The reseller is a third party company that offers domai n name 
registration services through a Registrar.  
 
The diagrammatic representation of the domain registration process is as 
under:  
 
 
 
 
  
13. In the present case, the assessee provided domain name registration to 
various customers under the brand name ‘ Logic Boxes ’, ‘Big Rock ’, ‘Reseller 
Club’, and other categor ies to resellers and retail customers. The assessee 
functions as the ‘ Registrar‟  in the domain name regist ration process and its 
group companies act as ‘ Reseller‟  which procures domain registration services 
from the assessee , as the case may be , and provides it the ultimate 
customers.  As per the assessee, the customer will access the reseller to check 
the avai lability of the domain name , which request will be forwarded to the 
Registry through the Registrar , and then the result shall be communicated to 
the customer.  If the domain name as requested by the customer is not already 
registered then upon receipt of pa yment from the customer, the reseller shall 
liaise with the Registrar/assessee for assistance and registration of the domain 
name for that specific customer. Thus, it is pertinent to note that prior to 
registration by the customer  the domain name does not exist in the database . Customer  
/ Registrant  Reseller  Registrar/
Assessee  Registry  ICANN  
(Regulato r)PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 10  Further, the right in the domain name  came into existence in favour of the 
customer only upon registration and the same belongs to the customer only 
during the period of registration , which is generally  for one year. If after the 
expiry of the period of registration, the customer does not renew the 
registration then the same domain name would be available to another 
customer to be registered in its name. Such registration can also be done 
through a diffe rent Registrar for the same domain name. The purpose of 
registration of a domain name is primarily to have exclusivity of domain name  
vis-à-vis the customer during the period of registration  since the internet 
allows for access to the domain name without a ny geography limitation . Thus, 
the domain n ame is registered on a first -come -first-serve basis.  However, in 
this entire process , the only person who can claim the right over the domain 
name can only be the customer. As the activity of the Registrar does no t result 
in transferring of any right in the domain name since its scope of activities is 
restricted only to facilitate the registration of the domain name after checking 
its availability in the database maintained by the Registry , under the 
supervision of  ICANN.  
 
14. In the present case, the AO has treated the amount received from 
domain name registration taxable in India as royalty on the basis that the 
domain name is an ‘ intangible asset ’ in the nature of ‘ trademark‟ . In order to 
come to the conclusion, the AO, inter -alia, has placed reliance upon the 
decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Satyam Infoway Ltd . vs Siffynet 
Solutions (P) Ltd., (2004) 6 SCC 145. We find that while coming to the 
conclusion that a domain name may have all the characteristics of aPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 11  trademark, the Hon’ble Supreme Court , in the peculiar facts of that case took 
into consideration the factors , namely , the volume of sales, extent of 
advertisement, misrepresentation by the defendant to the public and likelihood 
of confusion in the minds o f the public , and accordingly came to the conclusion 
that the Appellant has been able to establish the goodwill and reputation 
claimed by it in connection with the trademark. In this regard, it is relevant to 
note that the Hon’ble Jurisdictional High Court  in People Interactive (India) 
Private Ltd vs Vivek Pahwa, 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 7351 held that every 
domain name that incorporates a trademark enjoys the same protection as the 
mark, neither more nor less.  
 
15. Thus, it is pertinent to note that the particular  name per se  may 
tantamount to trademark, in certain cases, only with the continuous efforts of  
an entity . Even in such a case , if another customer approaches the Reseller  / 
Registrar for registration of  that name as its domain name, the same shall be 
registered provided the domain name is available in the database maintained 
by the Registry. In such a situation, the entity having the trademark can 
initiate ‘ passing off ’ proceedings in respect of the trademark only against the 
aforesaid  registrant . However, in such an action , no relief can be sought 
against the Registrar since they do not have any right in the domain name 
which was registered by them merely as a facilitator. Further, the Registrar  
also doesn’t have any right in the data sub mitted by the customer for 
registration of the domain name.  We find that the Hon’ble Jurisdictional High 
Court in Hindustan Unilever Ltd vs Endurance Domains Technology LLP, 2020 
SCC OnLine Bom 809, wherein the relief was sought against the Registrar heldPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 12  that it is entirely unworkable to ask the domain name Registrar to ‘ block 
access ’ to domain name as the Registrar can only be asked to suspend 
registration. The Hon’ble High Court further held that the entire process of 
registration itself is entirely auto mated/machine driven and therefore the 
notion that the domain name Registrar ha s a person or a team of person 
scanning and checking every domain name application betrays a whole sale 
lack of understanding of how domain name registration actually works. Thus , 
the registration will continue until suspension or expiry.  
 
16. Therefore , from the above , it is evident that apart from acting as an 
intermediary in the entire process of domain name registration, the Registrar 
has no other role to play. Thus, it cannot be held that the assessee functioning 
as a domain name Registrar  had any right in the domain name registered in 
the name of the customer/registrant, least intellectual property right/intangible 
asset in the nature of ‘ trade mark’. In the present case, there is  no dispute 
regarding the fact that the assessee is a resident of UAE  and therefore the 
assessee is entitled to the provisions of the India UAE DTAA . The Tax 
Residency Certificate (‘TRC‟) for the year under consideration  also forms part 
of the paper book filed by the assessee. Under Article 12(3) of the India UAE 
DTAA, the term „royalty ‟ has been defined as under : 
 
“3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payment of any kind 
received as a consideration for t he use of, or the right to use, any copyright of 
literary, artistic or scientific work, including cinematography films, or films or 
tapes used for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design 
or model, plan, secret formula or process, o r for the use of, or the right to use, 
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning 
industrial, commercial or scientific experience but do not include royalties or 
other payments in respect of the operation of mines or quar ries or exploitation 
of petroleum or other natural resources.”PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 13   
17. In view of the above, we are of the considered opinion that since the 
assessee had no right in the domain name, the income received by the 
assessee from domain name registration does not fall  in the category of 
royalty as defined under Article 12(3) of the India UAE DTAA.  Further,  once 
the taxability fails in terms of the treaty provisions, there is no occasion to 
refer to the provisions of the Act, as in terms of section 90(2)  the provisions of 
the Act or the DTAA, whichever is more beneficial to the assessee  shall be 
applicable . We find that the decision of the coordinate bench of the Tribunal in 
Godaddy.com vs ACIT, (2018) 170 ITD 217 (Delhi -Trib.), relied upon by the 
AO, is factually distinguishable as in that case the taxpayer did not claim any 
benefit under the tax treaty. Hence, the AO is directed to delete the addition 
on account  of income from domain registration services . Accordingly, ground 
No. I raised in assessee’s a ppeal is allowed.  
 
18. The issue arising in ground No.  II, raised in assessee’s appeal, is 
pertaining to the addition on account of income from web hosting services.  
 
19. The brief facts of the case pertaining to this issue are:  During the year 
under consideration , the assessee earned  an income  of Rs.3,05,20,4 19, from 
providing web hosting services to customers. During the assessment  
proceedings , the assessee was asked to show cause as to why income from 
web hosting services should not be treated as royalty . In response thereto the 
assessee submitted that it is engaged in the business of web presence, 
including inter -alia, providing web hosting services. It was further submitted 
that the assessee also manages to procure servers  on lease in respect ofPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 14  providin g web hosting services to the end customers. Therefore , the assessee 
provides web space to various customers to host their websites on its third -
party servers either owned or leased. The assessee further submitted that the 
consideration paid is for the use  of the server space , and the customers  
neither  have an independent right to use the server space nor have any 
physical access to it. Further , there is no right to use the technology platform 
nor there is any grant of license to use the platform. The AO vi de draft 
assessment order did not agree with the submissions of the assessee  and held 
that customers of the assessee are using the server of the assessee and 
paying the fees for the same. The AO further held that web hosting is 
interlinked with the domain name and therefore the amount received by the 
assessee in respect of web hosting/data centre services is in nature of royalty 
under the Act as well as under the provisions of the India UAE DTAA. 
Accordingly, the AO made an addition of Rs. 3,05,20,419 to the total income of 
the assessee.  
 
20. The assessee filed detailed objections before the learned DRP, inter -alia, 
against the addition made by the AO. Vide directions dated 07/03/2022 , issued 
under section 144C(5) of the Act, the learned DRP rejected the objections filed 
by the assessee  and held that web hosting services is a type of internet 
hosting service that allows individuals and organisation to provide their own 
website accessibl e via the World Wide Web and the payment is received on 
account of imparting the right to access the website which is valuable right 
falling within the purview of royalty under the domestic law of India as well as 
India UAE DTAA . In conformity with the dir ections issued by the learned DRP,PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 15  the AO passed the impugned final assessment order dated 31/05/2022 and 
assessed the income from  web hosting services as royalty. Being aggrieved, 
the assessee is in appeal before us.  
 
21. During the hearing, the learned Sr. C ounsel submitted that the 
consideration received by the assessee was only for use of the server space 
and neither independent right to use the server space nor any physical access 
was granted to the customer. Therefore, the amount received by the assessee 
on account of web hosting services is not in the nature of royalty.  
 
22. On the contrary, the learned DR vehemently relied upon the orders 
passed by the lower authorities.  
 
23. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the material 
available on record.  Web hosting normally refers to the Web server that stores 
lots of data files. Web hosting provider normally has  servers and network 
connection to the end users or the resellers. Web hosts are companies that 
provide space on a server the y own or lease for u se by the clients as well as 
providing Internet connectivity, typically a data centre.  As per the assessee, 
the consideration paid is for use of the server space and the customers neither 
have an independent right to use the server space nor have physical access to 
it. Further , there is no right to use the technology platform nor there is any 
grant of license to use the platform.  We find that the term ‘ royalty‟  is not as 
widely defined in the India UAE DTAA as the same has been defined under the 
provisions of the Act.  We further  find that after the insertion of Explanation 5 
to section 9(1)(vi) of the Act by Finance Act 2012, the possession or control orPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 16  locatio n of the right, property , or information is not relevant  under the 
provisions of the Act . However , we find that similar amendment has not been 
carried out in the provisions of India UAE DTAA. In DIT vs New Skies Satellite 
BV, [2016] 382 ITR 114 (Delhi) , the Hon’ble Delhi High Court held that unless 
the DTAA is amended jointly by both parties, Finance Act, 2012 which inserted 
Explanations 4, 5 and 6 to section 9(1)(vi) by itself would not affect the 
meaning of term  ‘royalty’ as mentioned in the DTAA . Therefo re, in absence of 
a grant of any control over the  equipment belonging to the assessee to its 
customers, the findings of the AO that the amount so received will constitute 
royalty is not acceptable in view of the provisions of Article 12(3) the India 
UAE DT AA. Further, we find no basis in linking the taxability of income from 
web hosting services with income from domain registration services by the AO, 
as both are  independent and  mutually exclusive.  Hence, the AO is directed to 
delete the addition  on account  of income from web hosting services.  
Accordingly, ground No.  II raised in assessee’s appeal is allowed.  
 
24. The issue arising in ground No.  III, raised in assessee’s appeal, is 
pertaining to the addition on account of sponsorship income.  
 
25. The brief facts of the case pertaining to this issue are:  During the year 
under consideration, the assessee received sponsorship income of Rs. 
64,91,659 for conducting two days conference in India. As per the assessee , 
the event was primarily organised to advertise the asses see’s service offering 
to potential customers and to educate  its customers. The AO vide draft 
assessment order did not agree with the submissions of the assessee and  
added the sponsorship income to the total income of the assessee.PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 17   
26. The assessee filed deta iled objections before the learned DRP, inter -alia, 
against the addition made by the AO. Vide directions dated 07/03/2022 issued 
under section 144C(5) of the Act, the learned DRP, after noting that the AO 
has not dealt with the issue of permanent establish ment in India, directed the 
AO to pass a speaking order with regard to the existence of assessee’s 
permanent establishment in India. In conformity with the directions issued by 
the learned DRP, the AO passed the impugned final assessment order dated 
31/05/ 2022 and held that the assessee  has a permanent establishment in 
India and income of Rs.64,91,659 , on account of sponsorship income is 
taxable as business income.  Being aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before 
us. 
 
27. During the hearing, the learned Sr. Counsel submitted that the details 
regarding the sponsorship income were submitted before the AO during the 
assessment proceedings. The learned Sr. Counsel further submitted that the 
impugned sponsorship income was earne d by the assessee from the solitary 
conference of 2 days in India and in the absence of permanent establishment 
in India such an income cannot be taxed as business income in India under 
Article 7 of the India UAE DTAA.  
 
28. On the other hand, the learned DR ve hemently relied upon the orders 
passed by the lower authorities.  
 
29. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the material 
available on record. The principal business of the assessee is providing web 
hosting and domain name registration services. The assessee also claims toPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 18  organise various conferences in India and outside India to advertise its service 
offering to potential customers. As per the assessee, it uses this forum to 
educate  its customers and no sale is undertaken during such conferences . 
Further, during such conferences, the assessee provides space to set up 
stalls/booths to various third parties to market their brands and products 
through which it earns income.  During the year, the assessee conducted a 
conference in India only for 2 day s and from which it earned  sponsorship 
income, which has been held to be taxable  as business income by the 
Revenue.  We find that vide its submission dated 09/03/2021, the assessee 
provided the details of sponsorship to the AO, which  forms part of the paper  
book on page 69. However, without commenting on the same, the AO made 
the impugned addition. In further proceedings, the learned DRP directed the 
AO to pass a speaking order with regard to the existence of assessee’s 
permanent establishment in India. At the outset, it is pertinent to note that 
under section 144C (8) of the Act the DRP may confirm, reduce or enhance the 
variation proposed in the draft assessment order, however, it cannot set aside  
any proposed variation or issue any direction for further enquiry and passing of 
the assessment order . Thus, we find that the directions issued by the DRP to 
the AO to pass a speaking order in respect of the existence of permanent 
establishment is complet ely contrary to the provisions of section 144C(8) of 
the Act.  
 
30. Even on merits, we find that  earning sponsorship income from the 
sponsors was consequential to the advertising event  in the 2 days conference. 
In the present case, there cannot be any dispute that organising such an eventPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 19  is not the core business activity of the assessee. Further, under Article 5 of 
India UAE DTAA, the term ‘permanent establishment’ means of a fixed pla ce of 
business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried 
on. In the present case, firstly  mere conducting of a conference only for 2 days 
in India cannot be  said to be a fixed place of business, and secondly, as noted 
above co nducting a conference is not the core business activity of the 
assessee. Even if , at all, it can only be considered to be in the nature of the 
preparatory or auxiliary  activity , which has been specifically excluded from the 
definition of permanent establis hment under Article  5(3) of the India UAE 
DTAA. Thus,  in absence of the permanent establishment of assessee in India,  
the sponsorship income cannot be taxed in India as business income.  
Accordingly, in view of aforesaid findings, the AO is directed to delete the 
addition on account of sponsorship income . As a result, ground No.  III raised 
in assessee’s appeal is allowed.  
 
31. In the result, the appeal by the assessee is allowed.  
 
ITA no.185 6/Mum./2022  
Assessee’s Appeal – A.Y. 20 18–19 
 
32. In its appeal, the ass essee has raised  the following grounds: – 
 
“On the facts, and in the circumstances of the case, and in law, the Appellant 
craves to prefer an appeal against the order dated 23 May 2022 passed by the 
Deputy Commissioner of Income - tax (Int. Tax) -3(3)(2) (hereinafter referred to 
as the 'learned AO') under Section 144C(13) read with Section 143(3) of the 
Income -tax Act, 1961 on the grounds as set out herein:  
 
The following grounds are independent of, and without prejudice to, one 
another:  
 
GROUND I: OBJECTI ON AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF INCOME FROM 
DOMAIN REGISTRATION SERVICESPDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 20  On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
(AO) erred in alleging that income from Domain Name Registration services is 
taxable as 'Royalty' under  Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act') 
and under the India - UAE treaty (tax treaty"). The AO based on his conclusion 
contended that the Appellant is the owner of the domain name and is imparting 
the right to use in respect of a domain name th us erroneously considering it as 
a „Trademark ‟. 
 
The Assessing Officer (AO') erred in understanding the fact that the domain 
name does not lie with the appellant, and accordingly, there is no question of 
imparting rights for further consideration, thus it cannot be classified as the 
trademark and cannot be termed as "Royalty"  
 
GROUND II: OBJECTION AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF INCOME FROM 
WEB HOSTING SERVICES  
 
On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
('AO') erred in proposing that income from web hosting services is taxable as 
'Royalty' under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Act') and under 
the India - UAE treaty (tax treaty') in the absence of any physical access or 
control or possession or independent ri ght being granted by the appellant to 
the payer . 
 
The Assessing Officer ('AO') erred in concluding that the income from web 
hosting is interlinked to income from domain registration services and 
considered as royalty despite the fact that the said services  are mutually 
exclusive and independent.  
 
GROUND III: OBJECTION AGAINST ADDITION ON ACCOUNT OF SPONSORSHIP 
INCOME  
 
On the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Assessing Officer 
(AO) erred in concluding that the assessee did not provide subst antial 
documents and information regarding the treatment of sponsorship and other 
income, as a business income in computation and alleging that it is clearly 
evident that assessee is hiding the fact with respect to same and claimed that 
the same should be added to the income of the assessee.  
 
The Assessing Officer (AO) erred in ignoring the fact that the assessee had 
made sufficient disclosures and submitted proper evidence in support of its 
contention that there shall not be any addition made on account of  Sponsorship 
Income due to the absence of Permanent Establishment in India . 
 
The assessing officer (AO) erred in law and in the fact that the income from 
Sponsorship is taxable as 'Business income' under the India -UAE tax treaty (tax 
treaty") treating it a s PE in India without giving adequate 
reasoning/explanation for treating it as PE in India . 
 
The Appellant craves leave to add to, or alter, by deletion, substitution, 
modification or otherwise, the above grounds of appeal, either before or during 
the hear ing of the appeal. ”PDR Solutions FZC  
ITA no. 1855/Mum./2022  
ITA no.1856/Mum./2022  
Page | 21  33. During the hearing, both parties agreed that the facts for the year under 
consideration are similar to the preceding assessment year.  Since similar 
issues have been decided in assessee’s appeal being ITA No. 1855/Mum./  
2022, for the a ssessment year 2017 –18, therefore, our findings/conclusion 
rendered in the said appeal shall apply mutatis mutandis . Accordingly, all the 
grounds raised by the assessee in this appeal are allowed.  
 
34. In the result, the appeal by the assessee is allowed.  
 
35. To sum up, both appeals by the assessee are allowed.  
Order pronounced in the open Court on 30/12/2022  
 
Sd/- 
G.S. PANNU  
PRESIDENT   
 
 
   Sd/- 
SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL  
JUDICIAL MEMBER  
MUMBAI,   DATED:    30/12/2022  
 
Copy of the order forwarded to : 
 
(1) The Assessee;  
(2) The Revenue;  
(3) The CIT(A);  
(4) The CIT, Mumbai City concerned;  
(5) The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;  
(6) Guard file . 
                              True Copy  
                   By Order  
Pradeep J. Chowdhury  
Sr. Private Secretary  
 
              Assistant Registrar  
           ITAT, Mumbai