Page 1of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.BEFORE THE AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE RULINGS, (NCR BENCH)
NEW DELHI
21stDay of June, 2019
A.A.R. No. 869 of 2010
Justice (Mrs.) Ranjana P. Desai, Chairperson
Mr. Narendra Prasad Sinha, Member (Revenue)
Mr. Ramayan Yadav, Member (Law)
Name & address of the Applicant : Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.
ZoeteInval 20,
4815 HK Breda,
The Netherlands.
Present for the Applicant : Mr. Deepak Chopra, Advocate
Mr. Rohan Khare, Advocate
Mr. Anmol Anand, Advocate
Ms. Deepika Kalsi, CA
Mr. Manish Bansal, CA
Mr. Venkatesan P.
Present for the Department : Mr. Satpal Gulati, CIT, DR
Mr. S.R. Kaushik, Addl. CIT, DR
Mr. Parikshit Singh, JCIT
RULING
(By Narendra P Sinha)
The Applicant Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V. (Perfetti) is a company resident in
Netherlands and is engaged in the business of manufacturing and sales of sugar confectionary
and gum. It had entered into a Service Agreement with its group company, Perfetti Van Melle
India Pvt. Ltd. (Perfetti India), effective from 1.4.2010 for providing various operational and
support services. The Applicant had preferred an Application seeking a ruling from the
Authority for Advance Rulings (“ AAR ”) in respect of taxability of payments to be made by
Perfetti India for the costs to be allocated by the Applicant under the Service Agreement.
The question of taxability was raised in context of the Double Taxation AvoidancePage 2of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.Agreement between India and The Netherlands (“ DTAA ”). The Applicant had relied on the
provisions of Article 12(5)(b) of the DTAA to canvass that in the absence of “make
available” condition, the payments would not partake the character of “fees for technical
services” and further in the absence of any Permanent Establishment (PE) (in terms of Article
5 of the DTAA) of the Applicant, such payments would not be taxable in India. The
Authority, vide ruling dated 09.12.2011 had ruled on the taxability of the payments to be
made by Perfetti India to the Applicant and had held that such payments would partake the
character of “fees for technical services” within the meaning of the term as contained in
Article 12(5)(a) of the DTAA. The questions raised by the applicant and the Ruling thereon
were as under:
Ques.
No.Question raised by the Applicant Ruling thereon
1. On the facts and circumstances of the case whether
the payment to be made by Perfetti Van Melle India
Private Limited (‘Perfetti India’) for the cost to be
allocated by Perfetti Van Melle Holding BV (‘the
Applicant’) will not be taxable in India in the hands
of the Applicant as per the provisions of the Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement (‘DTAA’) entered
into between India and the Netherlands?The payment to be made by
Perfetti India for the cost to
be allocated by the applicant
is taxable under Article
12.5(a) and as also under
Article 12.5(b) of the DTAC
between India and the
Netherlands.
2. If the answer to the question 1 is negative, on the
facts and circumstances of the case whether the cost
to be allocated by the Applicant on Perfetti India
will not be in nature of income and not chargeable
to tax in India?As the answer to question
No.1 is in affirmative, the
payment made by Perfetti
India would be chargeable to
tax in India.
3. On the facts and circumstances of the case, if the
Applicant is not taxable in India for the costs to be
allocated to Perfetti India, whether Perfetti India
will not be liable to withhold taxes under sectionPerfetti India is liable to
withhold taxes under section
195 of the Act on the
payments to be madePage 3of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.195 of the Act on the payments to be made by
Perfetti India towards the cost to be allocated by the
Applicant?towards the costs to be
allocated by the applicant.
4. Assuming that the Applicant has no other taxable
income in India, on the facts and circumstances of
the case;
a.Whether the Applicant will be absolved from
filing a tax return under the provisions of the
Act; and
b.Whether the transfer pricing provisions of
section 92 to section 92F will be applicable to
the Applicant in respect of the payment to be
made by Perfetti India?As the applicant is liable to
tax in India, it is required to
file a tax return under the
provisions of the Act and the
transfer pricing provisions of
section 92 to 92F would be
applicable in respect of the
payment to be made by
Perfetti India.
2. Thereafter, the applicant had filed a writ petition against the Ruling dated 9.12.2011
and the Hon’ble Delhi High Court vide order dated 30.09.2014 set aside the Ruling and
remitted the matter to the Authority for Advance Rulings to consider the matter afresh. The
order of the Hon’ble Court is as under:-
“This writ petition is directed against the ruling dated 09.12.2011 in
AARNo.869/2010 given by the Authority for Advance Rulings. One of the
pleas raised by the petitioner was that the said authority had not
considered the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and
Portugal which is an OECD country. The learned counsel for the
petitioner submitted that any agreement between India and anOECD
country could be looked into while construing the Indo-Netherlands
Double Taxation Avoidance Convention. The learned counsel for the
petitioner had also raised the plea that the memorandum of
understanding concerning fees for includedservices referred in Article
12(4) of the Indo-USA DTAA concerning the expression “make available”
was also not considered by the Authority for Advance Rulings. It wasPage 4of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.submitted that the said Authority refused to look into the Indo-Portugese
DTAA or the Indo-USA DTAA and memorandum of understanding
between India and USA on the ground that only the Indo-Netherlands
DTAC needed to be looked into.
The learned counsel for the respondent states that the Authority for
Advance Rulings was correct in not looking into the Indo-Portuguese
DTAA, but insofar as the Indo-USA DTAA is concerned, a provision
similar to that DTAA has been incorporated in the Indo-Netherlands
DTAC by virtue of paragraph 5 of Article 12 of the same, whereby the
very same “make available” clause, which is to be found in the DTAA
between India and USA read with the memorandum of understanding
connected therewith has been incorporated into Indo-Netherlands
convention by way of amendment on 30.08.1999, by notification No. S.O.
693 (E) [reported in (1999) 239 ITR (Stat) 56]. It is evident that the
Authority for Advance Rulings had not considered the said amendment.
In these circumstances, the impugned Ruling cannot stand. The
same is set aside and the matter is remitted to the Authority for Advance
Rulings to consider the entire matter afresh uninfluenced by any
observations made in the impugned Ruling.”
3. The matter was heard afresh and it was submitted by the Applicant that as per the
direction of the Hon’ble Court the applicability of the MOU along with the DTAA between
India and USA has to be referred to while interpreting the terms contained in Article 12 of the
India – Netherlands DTAA. It was submitted that while the Applicant’s reliance on the
provisions of the said MOU were in respect of the interpretation of the term “make
available”, however, since this Authority in its ruling dated 09.12.2011 had ruled that the
payments made to the Applicant were in the nature of “fees for technical services” as
envisaged in Article 12(5)(a) of the DTAA, the provisions of the MOU along with the Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and USA would have to be equally referred/Page 5of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.relied upon since the MOU explains the scope of the term “ancillary and subsidiary to the
application or enjoyment of the right ….”.
Relevant facts relating to the transaction
4. Before we deal with the submissions made on merit, it would be appropriate to
recapitulate the facts of the case, which are as under:
a.Perfetti Van Melle S. P. A. Italy (hereinafter referred to “Perfetti SPA”), is the mother
company of the Perfetti Van Melle (PVM) Group, worldwide manufacturer of
confectionary products and was licenced owner of the right to use the various
trademarks. Perfetti SPA also had a license to manufacture confectionery namely
candies, chewing gums, bubble gums, jelly candies, lollipops under those trademarks
in a few territories which included India.
b.Perfetti Van Melle Holding BV, (the Applicant) is a company based in Netherlands
and is primarily engaged in the business of managing of manufacture and sale of
sugar confectionery and gum and provision of operational and other support services
for the benefit of companies in the Perfetti Van Melle group situated in various
countries.
c.A Technology and Trademarks License Agreement (“ TTLA ”) dated 01.07.2005 was
entered into between Perfetti SPA and Perfetti India (a subsidiary of the Applicant), as
per which licence was granted to Perfetti India to manufacture and sell various kinds
of confectionery and also allowed use of its technology and know-how in manufacture
of the products. Clause 12 of the said TTLA provided that Perfetti India would pay
royalty to the Perfetti SPA subject to the ceiling of 5% on domestic sales and 8% on
export sales. The royalty payable was to be mutually agreed between the parties on
year to year basis subject to the overall cap of 5% on domestic sales and 8% on exportPage 6of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.sales. The actual royalty paid was at the rate of 2.5% on domestic sales and 2% on
export sales.
d.In the year 2010, Perfetti India entered into two fresh Technology, Trademark and
Know-how License Agreement (“TTKLA” ) one with Perfetti SPA and another with
Perfetti Benelux and the Applicant. It was explained that this change emanated from
the fact that Perfetti India had discontinued manufacturing of a few products which
were part of the original agreement dated 01.07.2005 between Perfetti SPA and
Perfetti India. In the new agreements the brands and products were grouped into three
categories namely Global Brands, Regional Brands and Local Brands and new royalty
rates were agreed with Perfetti India for each of such categories, which were at the
rate of 2.5%, 2% and 1.5% respectively.
e.With effect from 01.04.2010, a Service Agreement was also entered into between the
Applicant and Perfetti India, as per which the Applicant agreed to provide the
following specific operational support services to Perfetti India:
i. Accounting Services;
ii. Budgeting and Reporting Services;
iii. Forex Management;
iv. Global Credit Facility Administration and coordination of Global Funding;
v. Organisation of International Finance Manager’s meetings;
vi. Human Resource Management Services;
vii. Support and coordination of local strategy;
viii. Support in financial controlling;
ix. Corporate, Secretarial and Legal Support;
x. Environmental health and safety;
xi. Support on Risk Management.
f.As regarding royalty payment there is no dispute in respect of its taxability. The
questions raised in the present application pertain to this new service agreementPage 7of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.effective from 01.04.2010 and are in respect of the service charge payments as per
clause 4.2 of the said agreement.
Submission of the Applicant
5. The Applicant submitted that the provisions of Article 12(5) of the DTAA between
India & USA have no applicability in the present case. Our attention was drawn to the said
Article which becomes applicable only in the case of technical or consultancy services. It was
stated that managerial services are not covered under the said Article and the applicant
contended that given the nature of services rendered under the Services Agreement, they were
nothing but “managerial services”. Hence, there was no applicability of the provisions of
Article 12(5) of the DTAA. The applicant relied upon the following decisions in this context:
(i)Steria (India) Ltd. Vs. CIT (2016) (386 ITR 390) (Del.HC)
(ii)Measurement Technology Ltd. In Re (2015) 376 ITR 0461 (AAR),
(iii) Cummins Limited., In Re (2016) 381 ITR 44 (AAR) and
(iv)Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. Vs. DCIT (ITA No. 1889/Kol/2012, order
dated 25.10.2018)
6. The Applicant has drawn our attention to the fact that in the original ruling dated
09.12.2011 the payments under the Services Agreement were treated to be in the nature of
“Fee for Technical Services” under Article 12(5)(a) of DTAA since the services provided
under the Services Agreement were inextricably linked with the right to use the Trademark,
Technology and Know-how under the TTKLA dated 01.04.2010 and as such the payments
made under the Services Agreement fell within the scope of Article 12(5)(a). The Applicant
contended that the services rendered under the Services Agreement were not at all linked with
the TTKLA and hence there was no question of the applicability of Article 12(5)(a) of the
DTAA. It was explained that Clause 3 of the Preamble of TTKLA provides that the Applicant
can fully provide extensive support in :-Page 8of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.a) Marketing activity through the support of specialised Brand Teams;
b) Research and Development/ New Product Development and Process
Engineering;
c) Food Law products assessment;
d) Legal support in IP and other commercial and business law issue, Trademark,
Design and Patent application, registration and Enforcement.
It was clarified that all these services were different and distinct from the nature of services to
be provided under the service agreement. It was also contended that to determine whether any
of the services rendered under the Services Agreement were inextricably linked to the rights
vested under the TTKLA, the onus was on the Revenue to establish that the services under
the Services Agreement were rendered in connection with the license to use the technology,
technical marketing and commercial know-how in the manufacturing, sales, advertisement
and promotion of the products. It would only be then, that the provisions of Article 12(5)(a)
would come into play. In the absence of such onus having being discharged and in the
absence of it being shown as to how the general support services as rendered under the
Services Agreement relate to the application and enjoyment of such rights as vested under the
TTKLA, there was no question of the payments made under the Services Agreement being
characterised as “Fee for Technical Services” in terms of Article 12(5)(a) of the Indian
Netherlands DTAA.
7. The applicant further submitted that none of the services rendered under the Services
Agreement by the Applicant assist Perfetti India in the manufacturing, sales, advertising and
promotion of the products or in solving any technological or commercial problems which
would have arisen during the manufacturing and sale of the products.
8. The applicant also submitted that as per order of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court dated
30.09.2014, the contents of the MOU of the India-USA DTAA would have to be referred to
even for determination of the scope of Article 12(5)(a), sought to be invoked in the presentPage 9of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.case. Our attention was drawn to the examples in the said MOU and it was contended that for
services to be characterised as “Fees for Included Services” under Article 12(4)(a) of the
India-USA DTAA, the payments allocable to such services should not form a substantial part
of the total consideration payable under the contractual arrangement/s. It was brought to
notice that for Assessment Year 2011-12, the payment of Royalty under the TTKLA was INR
2.37 crores whereas the payments under the Service Agreement were to the tune of INR 9.48
crores. Thus, the payment under the Services Agreement was substantial in comparison with
the Royalty under the TTKLA. Further that the services must necessarily be related to the
application or the enjoyment of the intangible. Further that if the services were related to
improving the effectiveness of processes, only then they would fall within the scope of
Article 12(5)(a) of the Netherlands DTAA, which was not the case here.
9. The applicant relied on the Tribunal judgement rendered by the Bombay Bench of the
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in the case of Spencer Stuart International BV Vs. ACIT
[ITA No. 1696/Mum/2015, order dated 01.06.2018], which dealt with the provisions of the
India Netherlands DTAA and the scope of Article 12(5)(a).
10. The applicant also contended that the minute examination of the scope of the services
rendered under the Services Agreement establishes that the services rendered under the
Services Agreement were not connected, much less “ancillary and subsidiary”, to the
application or enjoyment of the rights vested in Perfetti India under the TTKLA.
11. The applicant submitted that the services to be rendered by the Applicant under the
Service Agreement were routine operational/ managerial services, intended to improve the
operational efficiency of the business. They do not involve making available of any
technology, technical know-how, skill to Perfetti India in a manner so as to enable PerfettiPage 10of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.India to apply such technology, technical know-how, skill without the assistance of the
Applicant.
12. The Applicant, drew our attention to the protocol in India – Netherlands DTAA which
contains a most favoured nation clause in respect of fees for technical services under Article
12(5) as per which the Applicant is entitled to take the benefit of a double taxation avoidance
agreement that India has entered into with another country after July 13, 1988, wherein a
lower rate on “fees for technical services” is provided for or wherein the scope and meaning
of “fees for technical services” is narrower than the rate or scope as provided for in India –
Netherlands DTAA. It was submitted that as per the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement
between India and Portugal (signed on September 11, 1988), fees for technical services is
narrower in scope than the definition of “fees for technical services” under the India –
Netherlands DTAA, in as much as, it is clarificatory of the fact that making available of
technology while rendition of services necessarily should enable the person acquiring such
services to apply the technology contained therein. It was stated that the said definition under
the India – Portugal Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement was in sync with the MOU
along with India – USA DTAA. The Applicant, therefore, stated that it is entitled to take the
benefit of India – Portugal Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement and the restricted scope of
the phrase “fees for technical services” contained therein. It was submitted that such
entitlement was upheld by the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka in the case of CIT Vs. De
Beers India Minerals Pvt. Ltd. (2012) 346 ITR 467. Furthermore, in the said case, the
Hon’ble High Court, while dealing with the phrase “make available” as contained in Article
12(5)(b) of the India – Netherlands DTAA observed that “ the test is whether the recipient of
the service is equipped to carry on his business without reference to the service provider, if
he is able to carry on his business in future without the technical service of the service
provider in respect of services rendered then, it would be said that technical knowledge isPage 11of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.made available.” It was submitted that identical view was taken by the Hon’ble Delhi High
Court in the case of DIT Vs. Guy Carpenter & Co. Ltd. For the purposes of Article 12(5)(b)
to trigger, it is necessary that the recipient of the service should be in a position to derive an
enduring benefit and be in a position to utilize the knowledge or know-how in future on his
own [Shell India Markets (P.) Ltd., In re [2012] 205 Taxman 288 (AAR-New Delhi)].
However, since in the facts of the present case, the Applicant does not render any technical
service under the Service Agreement, wherein any technology is transferred, there does not
arise the question of making available the said technology which could enable Perfetti India
to utilize the same in future on its own. Therefore, Article 12(5)(b) of the India –
Netherlands DTAA also does not have any applicability to the facts of the present case.
13. When enquired about the need for entering into this service agreement, the Applicant
filed an Affidavit dated 13.04.2016, by Mr. Venkatesan P, Head (Taxation) of Perfetti India,
stating that even prior to the execution of the Service Agreement in 2010, the Applicant was
rendering similar services to Perfetti India and other group entities, but no costs were being
charged to Perfetti India. The affidavit further states that it was during the years 2008/2009,
that the Dutch tax authorities exercised transfer pricing audit and advised the Applicant to
recover such charges from the operating companies from whom it was not recovered. It was
for these reasons that a formal agreement was entered into by the Applicant and Perfetti
India.
14. It was also clarified, on further enquiry, that the Applicant was providing these
operational support services only to the Perfetti Van Melle Group entities and such services
were not provided to any third parties.
Submission of the Revenue
15. The Revenue while admitting that managerial services are not covered in Article12(5)
of DTTA between India and Netherland, submitted that the services rendered by the applicantPage 12of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.were in the nature of technical / consultancy services. Relying upon the Memorandum of
Understanding dated 15.05.2089 to the Indo-US DTTA, it was clarified the consultancy
services included any advisory services. The Revenue also placed reliance on the following
decisions in support of the contention that services rendered were in the nature of the
technical and consultancy services.
(i) Shell India Marketing Private Limited (AAR) 2012-LL-0117-28
(ii) Intertek Testing Services: (AAR)
(iii) US Technology Resources Private Limited (Cochin ITAT) 2013-LL-0927-130:
(iv) GVK Industries (SC) 54 taxmann.com 347.
(v) Continental construction (SC) 195 ITR 81 (SC)
(vi) Central Board of Direct Taxes vsOberoi Hotels (India) (P.) Ltd 231 ITR 148.
(vii) International Hotel & Licensing Co (AAR) In re AAR 158 Taxman 231 (AAR)
(viii) Andaman Sea Food Pvt Ltd vs CIT (SLP no 36385/2014).
It was also submitted that the decisions relied upon by the Applicant were distinct and
different on facts. Therefore, the ratio of those decisions may not be applied in the present
case.
16. It was further contended that the services were not only technical and consultancy in
nature but were also ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right or
property or information for which royalty was being paid by the applicant as per TTLA.
17. The Revenue also submitted that earlier there was only one TTLA dated 01.07.2005.
However, with effect from 01.04.2010 two separate TTKLA arrangements were made. The
terms and clauses of the present TTKLA were similar to that of earlier TTLA. It was
contended that the pre-dominant purpose of the service agreement was enjoyment of the right
/information as per TTKLA and, therefore, the services were ancillary and subsidiary to the
main agreement as per which royalty was being paid. It was pointed out that even after the
separate services agreement the total payment to the applicant as percentage of turnover hadPage 13of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.remained the same which was about 2.3% of the turnover. In support, the following statistics
was provided:-
F. Yr Turnover
(Rs.Crore)Royalty
(Rs.Crore)Service Fee
(Rs.Crore)Total
Payment%age of
turnover
2007 -08 670.67 15.59 NIL 15.59 2.32%
2008 -09 824.65 19.12 NIL 19.12 2.31%
2009 -10 1018.8 23.48 NIL 23.48 2.3%
2010 -11 1284.89 21.05 9.78 30.83 2.3%
2011 -12 1536.6 24.51 10.59 35.10 2.28%
2012 -13 1637.19 25.76 11.21 36.97 2.26%
The Revenue contended that considering the fact that the total outgo on account of royalty
and service fee had remained identical to the payment of royalty prior to the service
agreement, the applicant had converted a part royalty payment into service payment which
was a colourable device to avoid payment of taxes in India or to pay less tax in India.
18. The revenue also pointed out that the services as per TTLA and the service agreement
was either common or complementary to each other, to achieve the common goal of
efficiency in production and to improve sales.
19. The Revenue also contended that the “make available” test is also fulfilled as the
services enable the employee of Preffiti India to gain from technical knowledge and resolve
the issues in future independently. It was submitted that even if the services provided are
continuous, the knowledge and expertise also gets updated on continuous basis.
20. In the rejoinder to the revenue’s contention on commonality of services between the
two agreements, the applicant clarified that the legal services contemplated under the TTKLA
had no bearing or connection with the Corporate Secretarial and Legal Services as envisaged
under the Services Agreement. The Services which were rendered under the Service
Agreement were general operational services and the use of the rights contained in the
TTKLA was in no way dependent on these services. Thus, the payments under the ServicePage 14of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.Agreement cannot partake the character of “fees for technical services” in terms of Article
12(5)(a) of the DTAA between India and Netherlands. The applicant reiterated that the
services under the Service Agreement between the Applicant and Perfetti India were not
ancillary and subsidiary to the application of enjoyment of the rights, property or information
vesting on Perfetti India under the TTKLA and, therefore, the payments made under the
Service Agreement do not constitute ‘fees for technical services’ under Article 12(5)(a) of the
DTAA between India and Netherlands.
Findings and Ruling
21. We have carefully considered the facts of the case and the submissions of the
applicant. One of the reasons for remitting the matter by the Hon’ble High Court was that the
Authority had not considered the amendment made to Indo-Netherlands DTAC vide
Notification No. S.O. 693(E) dated 30.08.1999. It was explained in the said Notification that
after signing the Convention with Netherlands, India had subsequently signed Convention
with Germany, Sweden, Swiss-Confederation and USA which were members of OECD and
which had limited the taxation at source on dividend, interest, royalty fees for technical
services or payments for the use of equipment to a rate lower or a scope more restricted than
the rate or scope as provided in the Convention between India and Netherlands, on these
items of income. Therefore, the original Convention effective from 21.09.1989 was modified
vide Notification dated 30.09.1999 in order to align with the other Conventions and make it
less restrictive. The Article 12(5) in respect “fees for technical services” (FTS) as per this
Notification was as under:
5. For purposes of this article, “fees for technical services” means payments of
any kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of any technical or
consultancy services (including through the provision of services of technical or
other personnel) if such services:Page 15of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.(a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right,
property or information for which a payment described in paragraph 4 of this
article is received; or
(b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or
processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or
technical design.
In the Indo-USA Convention there was clause for “fees for included services”, the scope
which was defined in Article 12(4) of the Convention as under:
4. For purposes of this article “fees for included services” means payments of any
kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of any technical or
consultancy service (including through the provision of services of technical or
other personnel) if such services:
(a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right,
property or information for which a payment described in paragraph 3 of this
article is received; or
(b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or
processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or
technical design.
In the Indo-Portuguese Convention, the ‘fees for included services’ was defined in Article
12(4), which was as under: -
4. For purposes of this article “fees for included services” means payments of any
kind other than those mentioned in Article 14 and 15 of this Convention, to any
person in consideration for the rendering of any technical or consultancy service
(including through the provision of services of technical or other personnel) if
such services:
(a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or
enjoyment of the right, property or information for which a
payment described in paragraph 3 is received, orPage 16of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.(b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill,
know-how or processes or consists of the development and
transfer of a technical plan or technical design which
enables the person acquiring the services to apply the
technology contained therein.
22. The Explanation-2 to Section-9(1)(vii) of the Income Tax Act defines FTS as under:
Explanation 2. —For the purposes of this clause, "fees for technical services"
means any consideration (including any lump sum consideration) for the
rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy services (including
the provision of services of technical or other personnel) but does not
include consideration for any construction, assembly, mining or like
project undertaken by the recipient or consideration which would be
income of the recipient chargeable under the head "Salaries".
Thus, as per the provisions of the Act the technical services include any managerial, technical
or consultancy services (including the provision of services of technical or other personnel).
However, the Conventions referred above exclude “managerial services” from the scope of
FTS. Therefore, a conjoint reading of all the Conventions referred above lead to the
conclusion that in order to reply to the questions raised in this application we have to examine
the following two aspects of the transactions:
1.Whether the payment made to the Applicant under the service agreement is to render
any technical or consultancy services “including through the provision of services of
technical or other personnel”?
2.(a) Whether the services rendered are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or
enjoyment of the right, property or information for which royalty is being paid? orPage 17of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.(b) Whether the services make available technical knowledge, experience, skill,
knowhow or processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan
or technical design (which enables the persons acquiring services to apply the
technology contained therein, [as per Indo-Portuguese Convention])?
The fulfilment of all the above conditions is not cumulative. While the first condition is
mandatory, fulfilment of any of the two conditions listed at 2(a) or 2(b) above will make the
payment in the nature of FTS under Article 12(5) of Indo-Netherlands convention.
23. The Applicant has contended that the services rendered as per the service agreement
were not technical or consultancy services but were managerial in nature. However, it has not
been demonstrated as to how the services rendered are managerial and not technical or
consultancy services. In fact the service agreement does not stipulate for payment of any
'management fee' so as to advance the argument that services rendered were managerial in
nature. The Applicant has provided operational support services and other support services,
which are not equivalent to services of managerial nature.
24. The MoU to the Indo-USA DTAA explains that technical services means services
requiring expertise in the technology whereas the consultancy services means advisory
services and that the two services might be overlapping. Further, the technical or consultancy
services will be considered “included services” to the extent:
(a)They are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of a right, property
or information for which the royalty payment is made, or;
(b)They make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, knowhow or processes
or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or a technical design.Page 18of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.The consultancy services which are not of a technical nature cannot be included service under
the clause (b) above. The MoU further clarifies that in order for a service fee to be considered
“ancillary and subsidiary”, the service must be related to the application or enjoyment of the
right, property or information. Thus, the pre-dominant purpose of the arrangement under
which the payment of service fees is made must be the application or enjoyment of the right,
property or information for which royalty is being paid. It further prescribes that whether the
pre-dominant purpose of the arrangement was application or enjoyment of right, property or
information must be determined by reference to the facts and circumstances of each case.
The factors which may be relevant for such determination are enlisted in the MoU as under: -
(a)The extent to which the services in question facilitate the effective application or
enjoyment of the right, property or information;
(b)The extent to which such services are customarily provided in the ordinary course of
business arrangement involving royalties;
(c)Whether the amount paid for the services was an insubstantial portion of the
combined payments?
(d)Whether the payments made for the services and royalty was made under a single
contract or a set of related contracts?
(e)Whether the person performing the services is a same person as, or a related person
to, the person receiving the royalties?
25. If we examine the facts of the present case vis-a-vis the above yardsticks, it is found
that the service agreement is in the nature of support services being provided by the holding
company to a group entity specific to confectionary industry and is not general in nature. The
service agreement specifically recognises the existence of proprietary knowledge and
processes belonging to PVM Group and that the specified services were required to bePage 19of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.rendered to use such proprietary knowledge and processes on a continuous basis. Thus, the
support services are required in connection with TTKLA through which the consideration in
the form of royalty is flowing. More the efficiency in application in the manufacturing,
quality control, costing, finance, marketing, sales etc.; larger is the enjoyment of the rights
conferred through TTKLA. Thus one agreement gives the right to manufacture while the
other agreement brings the efficiency in the system. The recipient has applied the specified
services to optimise services to give maximum royalty which is based on sales turnover. It is
thus crystal clear that the applicant is providing services in connection with an overall
arrangement which facilitates the effective application or enjoyment of the right, property or
information for which royalty is being paid.
26. In fact the services being provided under TTKLA and the service agreement are found
to be overlapping. It is seen that under the TTKLA it is agreed between the parties that the
applicant will provide the following to Perfetti India:
a) Licence to manufacture and sell various kinds of confectionary products;
b) Licence to use technological, technical marketing and commercial know-how in the
manufacturing, sales, advertisement and promotion of the products;
c) Offer technicians, marketers, salesman, in-house legal counsel and any other of the
experienced employees to assist in the activities mentioned above and in solving any
technological and commercial problem.
Under the Service Agreement following services are being rendered by the applicant:
a. Specified services requiring the use of proprietary knowledge and processes
belonging to Perfetti Group,Page 20of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.b. Specified services are: Accounting, budgeting, sales, marketing, forex
management, loans, HR, legal support etc.
c. Specified services are to be provided on continuous basis.
It is thus found that some of the services under the two agreements are overlapping. There
already is a provision to provide marketers, salesman, in-house legal counsel and other
experienced employees to carry out activities of sales, marketing, legal support to Perfetti
India in the TTKLA. There is further provision in TTKLA to use commercial know-how in
the area of manufacturing, sales, advertisement and product promotion which ordinarily
should cover accounting, budgeting, forex management, loans etc. Thus, the service
agreement has largely not brought out anything specifically which is not covered in the broad
parameters of TTKLA.
27. Exhibit A to the Service Agreement delves into the details of the services, which is as
under:
S.
No.Functions/Activities
performedDescription of Services
1 Accounting Services Assistance in setting- up and maintaining
accounting policies and procedures in line
with the group requirements.
Provide detailed accounting policy manual.
Review of accounting policies and
procedures and providing guidance in
respect of same whenever required.
2 Budgeting and reporting Service Review of financial plans prepared by the
recipient to check the commercial
acceptability and accuracy of reporting.
Regular review of reports to compare the
actual and budgeted figures.Page 21of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.Monitoring monthly reports of the Group
entities with the aim to increase saving
through cash management and reviewing
working capital forecast.
Provide on regular basis the data on cost of
production, sales & marketing and other
overhead cost of sister companies. This
helps to benchmark the cost and bring in
efficiency in operations.
3 Forex management Forex management at Group level which
broadly includes monitoring, management
and reporting of forex to hedge against the
foreign exchange fluctuations.
Hedging of currency risk at global level so
that the Group companies are not impacted
by the foreign exchange fluctuation risk and
do not have to incur separate cost for same.
As a result of centralized hedging obtaining
better terms in respect of economies of
scale.
Follow forex market in order to provide the
recipient with the best exchange rates.
Provide parodic exchange rates statements.
4 Global Credit facility
administration and coordination
of global fundingArranging guarantee and providing letter of
comfort at global level for obtaining
finance by Group companies at cheaper
rates. As result of the corporate guarantee,
Recipient is in a position to obtain finance
and maintain relations with banks and
financial institutions at better terms. This
also saves Recipient’s cost in providing
guarantees to bank deposit margins andPage 22of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.helps obtain loans at cheaper rates.
Assist recipient’s finance managers in
financing the businesses.
5 Organisation of International
Finance Managers MeetingsEnables recipients finance manager to
interact with the international colleagues
and to understand best practices at a Group
level. Corporate to facilitate and take care
of accommodation and the complete
programme like guest speakers etc.
6 Human resource management
serviceGlobal review of HP policies.
Setting up of global bonus scheme for the
sales personnel and global performance
management system.
Assistance in setting up the benchmarks for
the performance standards amongst the
Group and defining the code of ethics for
the recipient.
Assistance in facilitating the personnel
mobility within the Group and associated
contractual support.
Assistance in tasks related to labour
conditions.
Support and assistance in personnel related
contractual disputes and negotiations.
Enable Recipient’s international colleagues.
Provision of the accommodation and
facilitating the complete program like guest
speaker etc.
7 Support in coordination of local
strategyAdvice and support local General and
Finance Managers on operational issues
Undertaking market studies and
disseminating InformationPage 23of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.Review of business plans and advising on
marketing and sales strategy.
Updating on market and global business
trends.
8 Support in financial controlling Help the Recipient’s finance manager by
advising on matters like corporate
governance, realization budget, proper
accounting working capital control,
investment and financing
Assistance in coordinating & collating
required documents/information for the
purpose of transfer pricing requirement.
9 Corporate Secretarial and Legal
SupportCentralized Assistance in relation to
coordinating and collating status on
litigation matters, assistance with
commercial contract format etc.
Guidelines in relation to governance
policies, Group’s authorization and
delegation policies
Support in relation to contract review and
assistance in business risk evaluation.
10 Environment Health & Safety Provide guidelines for relevant safety,
health and security support to employees on
travel.
Assistance in relation to global policies and
framework on environmental health and
safety support.
11 Support on Risk Management Provide Recipient with assistance on
managing risks in relation to fire and other
perils to which recipient is exposed to.Page 24of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.The details under each head clearly show that the service is in the nature of assistance to the
team of the Perfetti India. Under some heads the Applicant will review the work of Perfetti
India and assist in maintaining standards as per group requirements. In some cases, there will
be provision of guidelines/manual to Perfetti India. Hence the services are largely carried out
by the Applicant to enable Perfetti India to be able to carry out its day-to-day tasks better.
28. These services were customarily provided in the ordinary course of business
arrangements as per TTLA dated 01.07.2005 as per which royalty was also being paid. As
explained by the Applicant no service fees was being separately charged as per the said
TTLA. It is only pursuant to the TTLKA dated 01.04.2010 that a separate service agreement
was entered into. The agreement for payment of royalty vide TTKLA dated 01.04.2010 and
the service agreement also dated 01.04.2010 are thus a set of related contracts. The person
performing the service is the same, who is also receiving the royalty in this case. The
contention of the applicant that the amount paid for services was not an insubstantial portion
of the combined payment is found to be misplaced. As pointed out by the revenue the total
outgo on account of royalty and service charge has remained almost the same in terms of
percentage of turnover, as compared to the payment of royalty prior to the service agreement.
As admitted by the applicant these services were being provided even prior to the present
service agreement but were not being separately charged. As per the arrangements made a
part of the royalty payment has been transferred to service payment and, therefore, the
quantum of payment for service charge becomes inconsequential. In fact the basis of royalty
on domestic and export sales in the earlier contract was also tweaked in the subsequent
contract and was made dependant on brands viz. global, regional and local. Further, not much
weightage can be given to this factor when all other conditions as mentioned in the MOU are
found to be against the Applicant. It is also found that the nature of services is tailor-made for
Perfetti Group Companies. As clarified by the Applicant, it is not providing such services toPage 25of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.any third parties but only to PVM Group entities. This clearly establishes that the services
rendered are ancillary and subsidiary to the enjoyment of right, property or information under
the TTKLA.
29. The meaning and scope of the term technical and consultancy services was considered
by this Authority in the case of Intertek Trading Services India (P) Ltd. in re (2008) (307 ITR
418), and held that the expression “technical services” cannot be construed in a narrow sense.
It has been observed therein that the term “technical” ought not to be confined only to
technology relating to engineering, manufacturing or other applied sciences. Professional
service imbued with expertise could be regarded as technical service. To reproduce from the
order:
What is meant by the expression 'technical'? Should it be confined only to
technology relating to engineering, manufacturing or other applied
sciences? We do not think so. The expression 'technical' ought not to be
construed in a narrow sense. It has received a wide interpretation in tune
with its dictionary meaning in several cases.
InContinental Construction Ltd. v.CIT[1992] 195 ITR 81 the Supreme Court
observed that "the expression 'technical services' has a very broad
connotation and it has been used elsewhere in the Statute also so widely
as to comprehend professional services: vide section 9(1) ( vii) ". The
relevant meanings of the word 'technical' given in the New Shorter Oxford
Dictionary (Thumb Index Edition) are 1. Of a person : having knowledge of
or expertise in a particular art, science, or other subject. 2. pertaining to,
involving, or characteristic of a particular art, science, profession, or
occupation, or the applied arts and sciences generally. In CBDT v.Oberoi
Hotels India (P.) Ltd. [1998] 97 Taxman 453, the Supreme Court reiterated
the view that the term 'technical services' included professional services.
In the case of Dean, Goa Medical College v.Dr. Sudhir Kumar Solanki [2001] 7
SCC 645, the question was whether the expression technical institutions'
takes within its fold the medical colleges. The Supreme Court observed
that "the dictionary meaning of the word "technical" is also "professional"
and is used in contradistinction with pure sciences to prepare the
professionals in applied sciences". However, we would like to observePage 26of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.that it is not any or every professional service that amounts to technical
service. Professionalism and an element of expertise should be at the back
of such services.
There is a decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in which the ambit of
expression 'technical service' was considered. In G.V.K. Industries
Ltd. v.ITO [1997] 228 ITR 564 (AP), SSM Quadri, J. speaking for the
Division Bench rejected the argument of the assessee's counsel 'that the
NRC did not render any technical or consultancy service to the petitioner-
company and that it merely rendered advice in connection with the
procurement of loans by it, which does not amount to rendering technical
or consultancy service within the contemplation of the said clause and
that the technical or consultancy service should relate to the core of the
business of the petitioner-company'. It was observed. In our view advice
given to procure loan to strengthen finances would be as much a technical
or consultancy service as it would be with regard to management,
generation of power or plant and machinery. From the above discussion it
follows that 'success fees' fall in line with any other technical services
within the ambit of section 9(1) ( vii) (b) .
10.7 The other expression used in clause ( c) of Article 13.4 [as well as
section 9(1) ( vii) of the Income-tax Act] is 'Consultancy services'.
Consultancy services could also be technical in nature. These two
expressions are not to be treated as water-tight compartments. However,
advisory services which merely involve discussion and advice of routine
nature or exchange of informations cannot appropriately be classified as
'Consultancy services' under the Article. An element of expertise or
special knowledge on the part of the consultant is implicit in the
consultancy services contemplated by Article 13.4( c).
30. We must appreciate the law in the light of the facts before us. When we apply the
yardstick given in the above ruling, these services giving knowledge and experience of the
confectionary industry to Perfetti India is found to be technical in nature. They are also
ancillary and subsidiary in nature in view of the fact that the Agreement clearly brings out the
intention of the parties to assist Perfetti India by applying the experience of its sister concerns
and group companies. The services rendered in setting-up and maintaining accounting
policies and procedures, the provision of detailed accounting policy manual, review ofPage 27of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.financial plans, benchmarking cost of production, sales & marketing and other overhead cost,
forex management and hedging of currency risk at global level, obtaining finance at cheaper
rates, corporate guarantee, setting up of global bonus scheme for the sales personnel and
global performance management system, benchmarking the performance standards and
defining the code of ethics for the recipient, providing guidelines for safety, health and
security support, global policies and framework on environmental health and safety support,
managing risks in relation to fire and other perils etc. are all technical services which cannot
be provided without the domain knowledge of the relevant field. Thus, the majority of the
services are technical in nature and the remaining one are in the area of consultancy.
Therefore, we cannot agree with the submission that they are not technical or consultancy in
nature. As already demonstrated earlier, these services are also ancillary and subsidiary to the
enjoyment of right, property or information under the TTKLA as such services are provided
to group companies only, with whom TTKLA is entered into, and not to any third party. The
services provided under service agreement are all specialized services and the Applicant
could have provided these services to any entity. However, the Applicant has not done so for
the precise reason that these specialized services are only ancillary and subsidiary to the
production process and could be provided only to those with whom TTKLA is made.
31. The applicant has placed reliance on the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case
of Steria (India) Ltd. (supra) in support of contention that the services rendered as per the
service agreement were not technical or consultancy services but were managerial in nature.
It is found that in that case a management service agreement was entered into, as per which
services provided were corporate communication services, group marketing services,
development services, information system services, legal services, human relation services
etc. Thus, the nature of service rendered in the case of Steria (India) Ltd. was totally different
from the nature of services rendered in the present case. Further the question to be decided inPage 28of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.that case was whether managerial service was taxable as per Indo-France DTAA, considering
that Indo-UK DTAA expressly excluded fees for managerial services from FTS. Thus, the
basic question in this case as well as the facts of the case was different. Therefore, the
reliance placed by the Applicant on this decision is misplaced.
32. The applicant has also relied upon the decision of AAR in the case of Measurement
Technology Limited (supra). It is found that the nature of services rendered in this case were
strategy and direction of business development of MTL India; attendance in person or by
phone at regular operational meetings to discuss progress of activities, both financial and
operational; management of personnel including conducting staff interviews, setting
individual targets and carrying out performance appraisals and any other related service;
which were held as routine managerial activities. It was observed in the ruling that though
some of the services may have the trappings of technical and consultancy service, looking at
the nature and the pre-dominant nature of services, they were primarily held as managerial
services. In the case of Cummins Ltd. (supra) also the nature of services rendered was totally
different as under:-
Finalization of supplier prices from UK and US suppliers and ensuring market-
competitive pricing from supplies;
Ensuring that the approved suppliers have the necessary manufacturing
capacities and Infrastructure to provide for the raw material requirements;
Assisting in ensuring on-time delivery of components by the suppliers to Cummins
India as well as resolution of delivery performance issues with suppliers, if any;
processes and support in obtaining response from suppliers to any quality control
violation issue; and
Performance review of the supplier will be held by Cummins UK at least annually
wherein Cummins UK will perform the regular product and process audits to
check that the supplier process and controls meet the requirements.Page 29of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.As the nature of services rendered in this case were much restricted and totally different than
the present case the Applicant cannot derive any benefit therefrom. In the case of Koninklijke
Philips Electronics N.V. (supra) the nature of services rendered under management support
service agreement were in areas of commercial, accounting, auditing, financing and legal
matters which were held as managerial in nature by the ITAT. However, the facts of this
case are also found to be different, as in this case receipt under Management Support Service
Agreement was held as cost sharing arrangement and not as royalty or FTS. The Tribunal has
not discussed the exact nature of services rendered nor has given any detailed reason as to
why they are treated as managerial service. Further, the requirement of ‘make available’ was
also not found fulfilled in this case. Under the circumstances, this cannot be treated as a
binding precedent as the facts of the case are totally different. The facts of the case of
Spencer Stuart International BV (supra) relied upon by the appellant are also found to be
different as issue of search fee and licence fee was involved in that case and no reason was
given by the Department that could lead to the conclusion that search fee was ancillary in
nature to the licence fee.
33. On the other hand the Revenue has placed reliance on the case of Shell India
Marketing Private Limited (AAR) 2012-LL-0117-28. In that case Shell India was receiving
General Business Support Services from Shell International Petroleum Company Limited, a
UK company under cost contribution arrangement. The services rendered were in the form of
general finance advice, taxation advice, legal advice, advice on Information Technology,
media advice, assistance in contract and procurement and assistance in marketing, which
were held as consultancy services. The decision of the AP High Court in the case of GVK
Industries has already been referred earlier wherein it was held that the advice given to
procure loan to strengthen finances would be as much a technical or consultancy service, as it
would be with regard to management, generation of power or plant and machinery. The saidPage 30of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.decision of the High Court was upheld by the Supreme Court (GVK Industries (SC) 54
taxmann.com 347)(2015). The Apex court upheld the judgment explaining the ‘source rule’
and the definition of ‘consultancy’ and held as under:
“As the factual matrix in the case at hand, would exposit the NRC had acted as a
consultant. It had the skill, acumen and knowledge in the specialized field i.e.
preparation of a scheme for required finances and to tie-up required loans. The
nature of activities undertaken by the NRC has earlier been referred to by us. The
nature of service referred by the NRC, can be said with certainty would come
within the ambit and sweep of the term ‘consultancy service’ and, therefore, it has
been rightly held that the tax at source should have been deducted as the amount
paid as fee could be taxable under the head ‘fee for technical service’. Once the tax
is payable/paid the grant of ‘No Objection Certificate’ was not legally permissible.
Ergo, the judgment and order passed by the High Court are absolutely
impregnable.”
The decision of the Apex Court in the case of Continental Construction Ltd and Oberoi
Hotels (India) (P.) Ltd (231 ITR 148) was already referreed in the decision of Intertek
Trading Services India (P) Ltd., discussed earlier. In the case of Andaman Sea Food Pvt Ltd
vs CIT (SLP no 36385/2014), the Supreme Court dismissed the SLP against Calcutta High
Court judgment wherein it was had held that payment of consultancy fees to Singaporean
company for forex derivative transaction services was taxable as 'Fees for technical
services'(‘FTS’). In the case of International Hotel & Licensing Co (AAR) in re AAR 158
Taxman 231 (AAR), this authority had held that the services of marketing and promotion
were consultancy services and in the nature of fees for technical services.
34. In view of the above facts, findings, discussions and the relevant judicial precedents,
we are of the opinion that services rendered under the Service Agreement when read with
TTKLA, fall within the purview of Article 12.5(a) of the DTAC as such services “are
ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the right, property or information
for which a payment described in paragraph 4 of this Article is received” by the Applicant.Page 31of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.This leaves us to examine whether the services also ‘make available’ technical knowledge,
experience, skill, knowhow or processes or consist of the development and transfer of a
technical plan or technical design, which enables the persons acquiring services to apply the
technology contained therein.
35. The Applicant has contended that as it does not render any technical service under the
Service Agreement, wherein any technology is transferred, there does not arise the question
of making available the said technology which could enable Perfetti India to utilize the same
in future on its own. Therefore, Article 12(5)(b) of the India – Netherlands DTAA does not
have any applicability to the facts of the present case. The technical services do not include
only transfer of technology. The development and transfer of a technical plan or a technical
design is only one aspect of technical service. The professional services having expertise in
the relevant field are also technical in nature. On the other hand, the consultancy services
which are not of a technical nature cannot be considered as ‘included service’ as they do not
make available any technical knowledge, experience, skill, knowhow or process. However,
all the services as per service agreement are not consultancy services. Rather, as discussed
earlier, the majority of them are technical in nature which do make available the requisite
skill to the recipient and equip them to carry on his business without reference to the service
provider. The consultancy services which are merely advisory in nature and which merely
involve discussion and advice of routine nature or exchange of information, however, do not
fulfil this requirement.
36. The exercise to segregate the services which ‘make available’ the technical
knowledge, experience, skill, knowhow, processes etc. and enable the recipient to apply the
same without reference to the service provider and the advisory services which fail to fulfil
this yardstick, will only be an academic exercise. As already mentioned earlier the servicePage 32of32
AAR/869/2010
Perfetti Van Melle Holding B.V.charge received by the Applicant is taxable under Article 12.5(a) of the DTAC between India
and The Netherlands and it is not necessary that the clause of Article 12.5(b) should also be
simultaneously satisfied. The exercise to identify the services which satisfy the ‘make
available’ clause would have been relevant, if the Article 12.5(a) would not have been found
to be applicable.
37. In view of the foregoing, the questions posed to us for a Ruling are answered as
under:
Que.1 The payment to be made by Perfetti India for the cost to be allocated by the
applicant is taxable under Article 12.5(a) of the DTAC between India and The
Netherlands. Though some of the services are also taxable Article 12.5(b) of the
DTAC, such services are not segregated as they are already taxable under Article
12.5(a).
Que.2 As the answer to question No.1 is in affirmative, the payment made by Perfetti
India would be chargeable to tax in India.
Que.3 Perfetti India is liable to withhold taxes under section 195 of the Act on the
payments to be made towards the costs to be allocated by the applicant.
Que.4 As the applicant is liable to tax in India, it is required to file a tax return under
the provisions of the Act and the transfer pricing provisions of section 92 to 92F
would be applicable in respect of the payment to be made by Perfetti India.
Accordingly, the ruling is given and pronounced on this the 21st day of June, 2019.
(Narendra Prasad Sinha) (Ranjana P. Desai) (Ramayan Yadav)
Member (Revenue) Chairperson Member (Law)