आयकरअपीलसं ./ IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020  
िनधा/g6981रणवष/g6981 /Assessment Year: 2011-12  
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd., 
No.60, Robinson Road, 
#12-02, BEA Building, 
Singapore-068892. 
 v. The Dy. Commissioner- 
 of Income Tax, 
International Taxation, 
Circle-2(1), Chennai. 
[PAN: AAECR 7054 E ]   
(अपीलाथ/g7278 /Appellant)     (/g7079/g7004यथ/g7278 /Respondent)  
 
अपीलाथ/g7278   क/g7409  ओर  से/ Appellant by  : Mr.Sriram Seshadri, CA 
/g7079/g7004यथ/g7278  क/g7409 ओर  से /Respondent by  : Dr.S.Palanikumar, CIT 
सुनवाईक/g7409तारीख /Date of Hearing  : 22.08.2022 
घोषणाक/g7409तारीख  /Date of Pronouncement  : 16.11.2022 
 
आदेश  / O R D E R 
 
PER G. MANJUNATHA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER: 
 This appeal filed by the assessee is directed agai nst final 
assessment order passed by the AO u/s.143(3) r.w.s. 147 r.w.s.144C(13) 
of the Income Tax Act, 1961, dated 25.11.2019, in p ursuant to the 
Dispute Resolution Panel-2, Bengaluru, directions i ssued u/s.144C(5) of 
the Act, dated 26.09.2019, and pertains to assessme nt year 2011-12. 
 आयकर  अपीलीय  अिधकरण , ’डी ’   /g7008यायपीठ , चे/g7382ई । 
IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
‘D’ BENCH: CHENNAI  
 
ी महावीर िसंह , माननीय उपा , एवं 
ी जी. मंजूनाथा, , माननीय लेखा सद क े  सम  
BEFORE  SHRI  MAHAVIR SINGH, HON’BLE VICE PRESIDENT AND  
SHRI G. MANJUNATHA, HON’BLE ACCOUNTANT MEMBERIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 2 :: 
 
2.  The assessee has raised the following grounds of a ppeal: 
Based on the facts and circumstances of the case, R edington Distribution Pte Ltd 
(here-in-after referred to as the 'Appellant') resp ectfully craves leave to prefer an 
appeal against the final assessment order dated 25 November, 2019 issued by 
Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, International Ta xation Circle 2 (1) (here-in-
after referred to as the 'AO') in pursuance to the directions issued by Dispute 
Resolution Panel -2 ('DRP'),Bangalore under section  144C(l 3) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 ('Act') on the following grounds:  
A. Corporate Tax Related:  
1. No Permanent Establishment ("PE") in India  
i. The Ld. AO/DRP have erred in stating that the Ap pellant has a Permanent 
Establishment in India.  
ii. The Appellant does not have a Fixed PE nor Depe ndent Agent PE in India 
under the provisions of both the Act and the India- Singapore OT AA which was 
not appreciated by the AO/DRP.   
iii. The AO/DRP failed to appreciate that a separat e assessment has already 
been initiated against Redington (India) Ltd, the H olding Company in India, for 
cross-charge of the expenses of the same ‘Dollar Te am’ of the Appellant which is 
again said to form the PE, thus a disallowance in t he Appellant's hands is 
unwarranted and lead to a double tax incidence.  
2. Incorrect understanding of Business model  
i. The Ld. AO/DRP have fundamentally erred in factu al understanding of the 
business model of the Appellant.  
ii. The Ld. AO/DRP ought to have appreciated the fa ct that the business 
model of the Appellant is back toback sales unlike stock and sell as that of 
Redington (India) Ltd, hence the asset and employee  requirements are not 
comparable. 
iii. The Ld. AO/DRP have not appreciated the basic fact that ‘Dollar Team’ 
does only fulfilment activity and does not finalize  prices or sign-off orders or 
make decisions and hence attributing profits to it as a PE is illogical and 
erroneous.  
3. Statement of Oath misinterpreted  
i. The Ld. AO/DRP ought to have considered the mult iple statements of oath 
of employees and third party customers which clearl y highlight that the ‘Dollar 
Team’ does not solicit customers in India.  
ii. The Ld. AO/DRP have deliberately cherrypicked t he only statement of oath 
of one junior employee who was new to the organizat ion and thus was not fully 
cognizant of the Appellant's functioning and which he gave under duress and has 
since retracted.  
4. Incorrect Attribution of Profits in IndiaIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 3 :: 
 
1. Arbitrary turnover value used:   The Ld. AO/DRP have erred in adopting 
an arbitrary turnover value for arriving at profit attributable to PE in India, 
instead of the turnover as per the audited financia l statement of the Appellant  
ii. Incorrect sales figure adopted:   The Ld. AO/DRP have further 
FACTUALLY erred in including in the total sales fig ure, the direct sales to third-
party customers (direct sales), sales to third-part y customers involving 
commissions to channel partners (ORC sales), sales made outside India (overseas 
sales), sales made directly to Redington India ALL of which have no relation to 
the instant case.  
iii. Flawed attribution to PE:  The Ld. AO/DRP without appreciating the 
following factual points, have erred in arriving at  its arbitrary attribution to the 
Permanent Establishment ("PE"):  
• the business of the Appellant is mainly sourced by 3" Party Channel 
Partners who work in conjunction with Vendors and E nd Customers in the 
normal course of business.  
• commission expense incurred on majority of the sale s and including the 
same again for the purpose of Permanent Establishme nt (PE") in India will 
be against the principles of natural justice and wi ll lead to double taxation. 
• the revenue stated in the audited books of accounts  are net of commission 
paid to such partners.  
• accordingly, such sales made through channel partne rs ought to be 
excluded from PE.  
iv. Average ratio of asset, employee based on incorr ect comparables:  
The Ld. AO/DRP have erred in adopting the average r atio of asset, employee by 
comparing it with Redington India which is wholly i llogical as both entities are 
fundamentally not comparable.  
v. Ad-hoc risk at 20% attribution:   The Ld.AO/DRP further erred in 
adopting an arbitrary risk attribution of 20% witho ut any' basis and without 
appreciating that there was no risk whatsoever unde rtaken by the ‘Dollar Team’ 
in India.  
vi. Royalty double addition:    The Ld. AO has erred in including the Royalty 
income again for the purpose of computation which i s already included in the 
turnover of the Appellant, resulting in double taxa tion. 
vii. The Ld. AO/DRP have ended up in arbitrarily as suming the manpower 
requirement for the Appellant's business with a par ticular quantum of 
profitability/turnover exceeding their jurisdiction   
5. Erroneous interpretation of directions of Hon'ble  DRP 
i. The Ld. AO has erred in not following the direct ion of the Hon'ble DRP 
which pecifically held that "profits shown in the b ooks of RDP L needs to be 
distributed between the foreign entity"  
ii. The Ld. AO has erred in adopting incorrect turn over of the Appellant which 
is not as per books of RDPL as required by the DRP instead stating that the same 
was taken from the survey in the premises of the Ho lding Company in India. 
Furthermore, even the document evidencing such turn over via the survey has not 
been shared by the Ld. AO with the Appellant.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 4 :: 
 
iii. The Ld.AO has therefore erred in deriving the profit for the subject year as 
INR 196,444,881 instead of INR 117,623,543.  
iv. The LD. AO has erred in not following the direc tions of the Hon'ble DRP to 
distribute the profits as per the audited books of the Appellant. The profit 
distributed is higher than the profit as per books of the Appellant (RDPL) which is 
against the very directions of the DRP.  
6. Derivation of profits attributable resulting in lo ss to the Appellant in 
the subject year  
i. The Ld. AO/DRP have erred in arriving at an exor bitant profit which would 
result in the Appellant incurring losses for the su bject year which is illogical and 
factually incorrect.  
ii. The Ld. AO erred in not considering the respect ive rectification petitions 
detailing the computation mistakes filed by the App ellant.  
7. The Appellant craves leave to adduce, annul or m odify all or any of the 
above grounds before or at the time of the hearing of the appeal. 
 
3.  The brief facts of the case are that the assessee,  M/s.Redington 
Distribution Pte Ltd., (in short “M/s. RDPL") is a foreign company and a 
tax resident of Singapore.  It is a subsidiary of M /s. Redington (India) 
Ltd., (in short “M/s. REDIL") a listed Company on t he National Stock 
Exchange & the Bombay Stock Exchange of India, in I ndia.  The 
Redignton Group is leading Supply Chain Solutions P rovider Worldwide to 
manufacture of Information Technology, Telecom and Consumer & 
Lifestyle products. The main business of the assess ee group is providing 
end-to-end supply chain solutions for all categorie s of IT products (PCs, 
PC building blocks, networking, software and enterp rise solutions 
products), Consumer & Lifestyle products.  The grou p has presence in 
various geographies viz., India, Middle East, turke y, Africa, Singapore and 
South Asian countries. A TDS survey was conducted a t the premise of the 
M/s.REDIL, wherein certain details were found which  showed that theIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 5 :: 
 
assessee, M/s. RDPL, is having a Permanent Establis hment (in short “PE") 
in India.  During the course of survey conducted on  12.12.2017, it was 
noticed that the team called ‘Dollar Business’ was identified from the 
employee list and on a detailed enquiry with the sa les staff, it was found 
that the said ‘Dollar Business’ pertains to the USD  business of Indian 
customers like Cognizant Technology, Sify Technolog y, Zoho Corporation, 
etc. It was further noticed that the ‘Dollar Team’ of employees of 
M/s.REDIL oversee the import requirements of custom ers of M/s.REDIL.  
It was further noticed that the ‘Dollar Business’ i s the same business with 
the distinction that the billing was done in USD in stead of INR and such 
request is usually made by companies having Units i n SEZ etc., who can 
avail import duty benefits from imports made in USD .  During the course 
of survey, employees of ‘Dollar Team’ were question ed about the work 
being done by them.  At the same time, supporting d ocuments like e-
mails, etc., were checked.  The Department has anal yzed statements 
recorded from employees of ‘Dollar Team’ and corres ponding evidences 
which shows entire sales process from identificatio n of customers through 
granting of credit till collection of receivables i n this ‘Dollar Business’ was 
happening from India and was being performed by the  ‘Dollar Team’ of 
M/s.REDIL.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 6 :: 
 
4.  The assessee is a foreign company and a tax reside nt of Singapore 
claimed that it is not liable to tax in India and t hus, return of income was 
not filed for the impugned assessment year.  The as sessment has been 
subsequently re-opened u/s.147 of the Act, for the reasons recorded, as 
per which, income chargeable to tax, had been escap ed assessment and 
thus, notice u/s.148 of the Act, dated 29.03.2018 w as issued and served 
on the assessee.  In response to s.148 Notice, the assessee filed its 
return of income on 25.04.2018 admitting total inco me of Rs.1/- and total 
tax and interest payable of Rs.1,15,01,279/-.  The assessee had 
requested for reasons for re-opening of assessment and such reasons 
were communicated to the assessee on 26.09.2018.  T he case has been, 
subsequently, taken up for scrutiny and during the course of assessment 
proceedings, the AO on the basis of information gat hered during the 
course of survey coupled with statement recorded fr om employees of 
‘Dollar Team’ and also on analysis of various evide nces including e-mails, 
correspondence between M/s.REDIL and M/s.RDPL, Sing apore, opined 
that the assessee is having a fixed place of PE in India, because of 
employees of ‘Dollar Team’ looking after complete b usiness model of the 
assessee, including identification of customers in India, submitting quotes 
for various equipments, fixing price and ultimate c ollection of receivables 
from the parties, has been done by ‘Dollar Team’ an d thus, opined that 
there is a PE in India and accordingly, the assesse e is liable to pay tax in 
India on  its income.  The AO has discussed the iss ue in light ofIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 7 :: 
 
Explanation-2 to Sec. 9(1)(1) of the Act, and Artic le-5 of India Singapore 
DTAA, to come to the conclusion that except shippin g of equipments from 
Singapore, all other works has been done by Indian ‘Dollar Team’ of 
M/s.REDIL. Therefore, said work done by ‘Dollar Tea m’ constitutes a fixed 
place of PE in India and thus, rejected the argumen ts of the assessee and 
assessed income of the assessee in India for taxati on.  The AO while 
doing so, had considered statements of Mr. Prabhaka ran, Sales Manager 
of ‘Dollar Team’ and Mr. Ashish Arora, who is head of Singapore 
operations of the assessee and observed that right from appointing staff 
required for Singapore operations to carry out vari ous business activities 
in India for the assessee, the employees of M/s.RED IL, are doing the 
work.  Therefore, said services come under dependen t agency PE also. 
Therefore, the Assessing Officer opined that income  is also liable to tax in 
India, even on this count.  Therefore, rejected the  arguments of the 
assessee that ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian entity was on ly doing back office 
work and all other work, including concluding contr acts is lies with the 
assessee i.e. M/s.RDPL, Singapore, and thus, assess ed total income of the 
assessee to tax in India.  As regards profit attrib ution, the AO after 
considering total employee cost of M/s.REDIL& M/s.R DPL, Singapore, and 
also asset base, come to the conclusion that the as sessee is having 
89.65% profit attributable to Indian operations.  T herefore, computed net 
profit of the assessee at Rs.19,64,44,881/- and att ributed 89.65% profits 
to Indian operations.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 8 :: 
 
5.  Being aggrieved by the draft assessment order, the  assessee has 
filed objection before the DRP-2, Bengaluru, and ra ised various objections 
against draft assessment order passed by the AO.  B efore the DRP, the 
assessee contended that the AO is erred in treating  ‘Dollar Team’ of 
Indian entity M/s.REDIL, has fixed place of PE in I ndia only on the basis of 
certain functions carried out by them for Singapore  entity without 
appreciating the fact that the ‘Dollar Team’ is per forming only back office 
support services like billing, follow-up action and  collection of receivables 
from the customers.  In other words, the ‘Dollar Te am’ of Indian entity 
does not have any authority to conclude contracts a nd in absence of any 
authority to conclude contracts, the question of ex istence of fixed place of 
PE, does not arise.  The assessee had also question ed profit attribution 
worked out by the AO and argued that the AO is gros sly erred in working 
out 89.65% profit to Indian operations.   
6. The DRP in their directions issued u/s.144C(5) da ted 26.09.2019 
opined that the entire sales functions are habitual ly performed in India 
through ‘Dollar Team’ and thus, all the conditions of PE are satisfied.  The 
DRP further opined that the ‘Dollar Team’ has perfo rmed the functions of 
agent in India and accordingly, the dependent agenc y i.e. PE is 
constituted in India.  Therefore, opined that there  is no error in the 
reasons given by the AO to conclude that the assess ee is having a fixed 
place of PE and dependent agency PE in India and it s income is liable to 
tax in India.  As regards attribution of profits, t he DRP observed that theIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 9 :: 
 
AO has adopted profit before tax ratio of M/s.REDIL , instead of Singapore 
entity.  Therefore, opined that what needs to be at tributed to PE is the 
profits of foreign entity i.e. M/s.RDPL, Singapore.   Therefore, directed the 
AO to consider profits shown in the books of the as sessee and attribute 
said profits to Indian operations.  The relevant fi ndings of the DRP are as 
under: 
2.1      The Panel has perused the evidence brought  on file by the AO and the factual and 
legal findings of AO. The Panel also perused the det ailed objections filed by the assesses. 
Based on this the findings of the Panel are summari zed in the following paragraphs:      
Firstly, the returned income is erroneously shown a s Rs.1/ in the DAO and the same may 
be rectified by the AO after due verification. 
The AO based his findings heavily on the findings o f survey during which the existence and 
functioning of "‘Dollar Team’" came to light. Hence  it is relevant to delve on the issue of 
"‘Dollar Team’” and it's functions. As stated earli er, this is a specialized team employed by 
REDIL in India whose primary/sole function is to tak e care of dollar-based purchases of 
Indian customers, meaning purchases which require i mport of goods and services. The AO 
discussed the issue at para 7 of her order REDIL ha s a host of customers in India. Most of 
their purchases are in Rupees meaning the Indian en tity acts as a distributor for the 
supply. However, when the customers have a requirem ent to make zero duly purchases 
from their SEZ units etc., the distribution activit y is referred to the "‘Dollar Team’ in REDIL 
office. That is when ‘Dollar Team’ is activated and  the members of ‘Dollar Team’ perform 
all the ingredients of sales' function and post sal es function. These functions include 
identification of suitable vendor for the customer.  Negotiation of price etc., is done by the 
‘Dollar Team’ of RED!!, except that the final billi ng is done in the name of RDPL The 
findings of the survey demonstrated that all the fu nctions that are performed for sale in 
India for rupee business is exactly replicated in D ollar sales also except that the final 
billing and payment are done in the name of RDPL. T he AO has reproduced the Stepwise 
functions performed by the ‘Dollar Team’ of REDIL a t Para-7 and the same is reproduced 
below:  
“ii. The customer seeks a quote towards the Bill of  Materials.  The negotiation and 
conclusion of terms of sales with customer will be done bythe ‘Dollar Team’ of REDIL in 
India on behalf of the foreign company. 
iii.  The ‘Dollar Team’ in REDIL furnishes the quot e with a request to place the order in the 
name of Redington Pte. Ltd. and then the customer p laces the purchase order in the name 
of RDPL. 
iv.  The ‘Dollar Team’ in REDIL in India generates and sends the proforma of invoice under 
the letter head of the foreign company RDPL on 
A.   “Generally, based on existing relationship, I woul d approach the Procurements 
teams at the respective customer place and explain them about out tie-ups with 
OEMs and try to understand the future and current re quirements of for IT 
infrastructure.   I have provided you with a copy o f such analysis in the file titled: 
c:/users/Krishnakumar/Desktop/IT/PPT.xlsx, prepared by m e.  When I approachIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 10 :: 
 
my customer I’ll approach them in the capacity of R edington India Ltd., sales 
team. 
 
B.  Then I will contact the respective OEMs like cisco, Juniper, Ruckus, IBM sales 
representatives available locally in India to prepa re the Bill of Materials and the 
commercials i.e. customer Transfer price i.e. the p rice at which you have to sell to 
the customer and Redignton Transfer Price i.e. the price at which the OEM will sell 
it to you. 
 
C.  Then the formal proposal will be submitted to the c ustomer for purchase order 
generation.  If the customer is not satisfied with the commercials, I will put the 
customer to the respective OEM for further negotiati ons.  
 
D.  The Redington commercials will he as per the rates agreed on transition basis 
negotiated by me initially and further if required by my business Head, Shri 
Abraham Cherian. The decision on rate to be negotia ted will be taken by me based 
on factors like, order closure, material urgency, c ompetitor involvement in the 
opportunity etc. Such decisions taken by me would b e acceptable to my team head 
as I am only aware of the prevailing circumstances.  
 
E.  I am producing a sample copy of said proposal dl 30 .10.2017 in respect of a 
proposed order from Cognizant Technology Solutions.  
 
F.  On receipt of the purchase order from the customer, I have to receive a formal 
quote (ready to sell the agreed quantity at agreed rate) from the respective OEM. 
On receipt of the quote from the vendor by mail, I'l l forward the same to the team 
which loads the order onto the vendor system throth e online interface. The 
Proforma invoice will be generated automatically th ro our JBA based on purchase 
order given by the customer which will be downloade d and sent by me to the 
customer. 
 
G.  Post order loading by Redington to the vendor inter face, mail will bereceived from 
OEMs regarding the order status, readiness of the it em ordered at the vendor 
facility. 
 
H.  Based on that Iwill take a confirmation on the ship ment plan from the customer. 
 
I.  Mail will be sent to Mr.Muthu stationed at Singapor e for both hardware. 
 
J.  As per the agreed terms in the purchase order, paym ent follow up will be made by 
me. 
 
K.  The terms in respect of timing of payment i.e. cred it or immediate will be decided 
by me. 
L.  In case of any defaultby the customer, I will be co nsistently following up on the 
same with the customer. 
 
M.  On receipt of payment, the sales cycle end there”. 
2.3 The assessee's primary contention is that RDPL has performed all the functions of 
distribution in case of "Dollar" based sales with t he help of wide network of '"Channel 
partners" to whom commission is paid. It is the con tention of the assesses that channel 
partners in conjunction with the vendors perform al l the critical steps in distribution. The 
assessee claims that it is the customers who decide  the billing modalities in INR or USD 
and RDPL does not have a role in such decision maki ng. This argument of the assessee is 
not acceptable. To understand the distribution of f unctions between various slake holders 
like customer, vendor, channel partners and distrib utors, it is better to look at the INR 
sales before going to Dollarsales. Each entity has specific role to play in the supply chain 
management. The role of customer who wants to purch ase goods and the role of 
vendor/manufacturer/supplier need not be discussed he re.  The distributor (REDIL in case 
of INR sales) and channel partners both perform dist inct functions in the procurement, andIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 11 :: 
 
supply. One can't be replaced by another. The channe l partner who acts like a sub-
distributor is compensated in the form of commissio n for such function. It can’t be stated 
that in case where channel partner is involved REDI L has not performed any functions. Nor 
can it be said that channel partner can replace sal es/marketing team of REDIL. Hence, the 
functions of the ‘Dollar Team’ and their role in sa les proved. The sale may happen with or 
without the channel partner. But the argument of th e AO based on the evidence is that the 
functions otherwise performed by the REDIL in respe ct of INR sales are continued to be 
performed by REDIL through their ‘Dollar Team’. Thi s is the reason why the business is 
done in India and PK is attributed in India. Consid ering this it can be stated that the 
existence of channel partners and payment of commis sion to the channel partners in no 
way interferes with the findings of the AO and the e xistence of PR in India.  
2.4 The assesses also contended in its submissions dated 30.08.2019 before the Panel that 
business models of REDIL and RDPL are different, it  is contended that customer base of 
RDPL consists of entities like SE7 units, customers  with duty scripts etc., who wish to avail 
duty benefits on import while REDIL caters to the r equirements of local INR purchases. In 
this regard, it is seen that many customers who are  big technology companies have 
composite requirements. They need purchases in INR for normal units and Dollar 
purchases for SEZ and duty free units. Further, eve n if the customer base are different, 
the role played by ‘Dollar Team’ cannot be overlook ed. Further the assessee admitted that 
both RDPL and REDIL work through channel partners a nd commission is paid by them. The 
assessee contended that ‘Dollar Team’ performs only  fulfillment activity and do not finalize 
the prices or sign-off the orders. But this asserti on is not based on evidence. The AO has 
put on record sufficient evidence to show that ‘Dol lar Team’ performed all the functions of 
distribution what the rest of REDTL performed. The AO demonstrated that RDPL 
establishment in Singapore was bare minimum with le ast deployment of assets and 
skeletal staff has no wherewithal to perform the di stributor function; Hence, we are unable 
to accept the arguments forwarded by the assessee. 
2.5      With regard to the type of PE, it is seen that REDIL along with ‘Dollar Team’ has 
performed the functions of agent in India and DAPE is accordingly constituted in India. 
The AO in the Order discussed the legal provisions i n view of Sec.5 and Sec.9 and the 
provisions of Indo-Singapore DTAA as under: 
“Sub Section 2 of Section 5 of the Act reads that -  
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the total in come of any previous year of a person who 
is a non-resident includes all income from whatever  source derived which - 
a)  is received or is deemed to be received in India in  such year by or on behalf of 
such person; or  
b)  accrues or arises or is deemed to accrue or arise t o him in India during such 
year. 
The total income of RDPL a non-resident in India in cludes the income derived which 
accrues or is deemed to accrue to it in India. Sect ion 9 gives out the scope of total income 
of RDPL chargeable to tax in India.  
Clause (i) of Sub-section 1 of Section 9 of the Act  reads  
9.(1) The following incomes shall be deemed to accru e or arise in India: 
(i) all income accruing or arising, whether directly  or indirectly, through or from any 
business connection in India, or through or from an y property in India, or through or from 
any asset or source of income in India, or through the transfer of a capital asset situate in 
India. 
Explanation I. - For the purposes of this clause—IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 12 :: 
 
(a) inthe case of a business of which all the operat ions are not carried out in India, the 
income of the business deemed under this clause to accrue or arise in India shall be only 
such partof the income as is reasonably attributabl e to the operations carried out in India; 
(b) in the case of a non-resident, no income shall b e deemed to accrue or arise in India to 
him through or from operations which are confined t o the purchase of goods in India for 
the purpose of export;         
(c) ….. 
(d) …. 
Explanation 2,—For the removal of doubts, it is her eby declared that "business connection" 
shall include any business activity carried out thr ough a person who, acting on behalf of 
the nonresident--  
(a) has and habitually exercises in India, an author ity to conclude contracts on behalf of 
the non-resident, unless his activities are limited  to the purchase of goods or merchandise 
for the non-resident: or  
(b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in India a stock of goods or 
merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the non-
resident; or    
(c) habitually secures orders in India, mainly or w holly for that non-resident and other 
non-residents controlling, controlled by, or subjec t to the same common control, as that 
non-resident:  
Provided that such business connection shall not. i nclude any business, activity carried out 
through a broker, general commission agent or any o ther agent having an independent 
status, if   such broker, general commission agent or any other agent having an 
independent status is acting in the ordinary course  of his business: 
Provided further that where such broker, general co mmission agent or any other agent 
works mainly or wholly on behalf of a non-resident (hereafter in this proviso referred to as 
the principal non-resident) or on behalf of such non -resident and other non-residents 
which are controlled by-the principal non-resident or nave a controlling interest in the 
principal non-resident or are subject to the same c ommon control as the principal non-
resident, he shall not be deemed to be a broker, ge neral commission agent or an agent of 
an independent status. 
Explanation 3, - Where a business is carried on in India through a person referred to in 
clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of Explanation 2, only so much of income as is 
attributable to the operations carried out in India  shall be deemed to accrue or arise in 
India. 
Explanation 4.- For the removal of doubts, it is he reby clarified that the expression 
"through" shall mean and include and shall be deeme d to have always meant and included 
"by means of", "in consequence of' or "by reason of . 
Article 5 of Singapore vs. India DTAA 
1 .For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "pe rmanent establishment" means a. 
fixedplace of business through which the business o f the enterprise is wholly or partly 
carried on&Notwithstanding the provisions of paragr aphs 1 and 2, where a person - other 
than an agent of an independent status to whom para graph 9 applies - is acting in a 
Contracting Stateon behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State that enterprise 
shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment i n the first-mentioned State, if—IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 13 :: 
 
(a)  he has and habitually exercises in that State a n authority to conclude contracts on 
behalf of the enterprise, unless his activities are  limited to the purchase pf goods or 
merchandise for the enterprise; 
b)  he has no such authority, but habitually maintai ns in the first-mentioned Slate a stock 
of goods or merchandise from which regularly delive rs goods or merchandise for the 
enterprise;  
(c)  He habitually secures orders in the first-menti oned State, wholly or almost wholly for 
the enterprise itself or for the enterprise and oth er enterprises controlling, controlled by, or 
subject to the same common control, as that enterpr ise”. 
2.6      As seen above the and considering the evid ence that the entire sales function is 
performed in India through the‘Dollar Team’ all the  conditions of a PE are satisfied. The 
Panel agrees with the AO in concluding that the ass essee's PE is established in India.  The 
assessee filed additional submissions dated 26/08/20 19 received on 30/08/2019.   The 
additional submissions are essentially same as orig inally raised. As these issues are 
discussed at relevant paras of this Order separate a djudication is not warranted on these 
issues, : 
2,7 · With regard to the attribution of PE profits,  the assessee alleged that AO erred in 
adopting the PBT ratio of Redington India (REDIL) wh ich according to assessee is not 
comparable. The assessee contends that PBT ratio of  RDPL should be used for 
profitattribution. The Panel has considered the iss ue. What needs to be attributed to PE is 
the profits of foreign entity i.e.RDPL; Singapore. The profits shown in the books ofRDPL 
needs to be distributed between foreign entityandPE . Hence, we concede the argument 
raised by the assessee and that the margin of RDPL,  Singapore should be adopted to 
arrive at the profits attributable tothe PE. 
2.8  The next issue of profit attribution is the al location of ratio of profit to the PE. The 
AOallocated ratio of 17.73% and 82.27% between RDPL and PE (through REDIL). 'While 
working out the percent of risk the AO arrived at va rious risks as under:  
 
1 Ratio of employee cost   11.02%  
2 Ratio of assets   0.046%  
3 Risks assumed by RDPL 
(estimated) 20%  
Average 10.35%  
(wrongly taken as 
17.73%)  
2.9 On careful consideration the Panel do not consid er the estimation of risk on right 
footing. The employees cost, and assets of REDIL an d RDPL are compared and the ratio is 
arrived at. As discussed by the AO in the order, In dian PE has performed all the major 
functions, assumed risks and deployed the assets, M arketing, sales collection and 
distribution in India are performed by the PE. The Singapore entity has skeletal staff and 
performed very minimal functions with regard to pro nouncement and warehousing.  
Accordingly, as computed by the AO profit attributi on of 10.35%.and 89.65% between 
Singapore entity and Indian PE should be computed. The financials provided do not show 
the revenue generated from outside India. Hence, it  is assumed that Indian PE has 
performed all the above functions in respect of ent ire Revenue of Singapore Entity.  The 
profit margin of 2.274% by AO is based on the histor ical margin of Indian entity.  
However, the Panel is of the considered opinion tha t the AO should adopt the margins of 
Singapore entity and attribute the same between Ind ian PE and Singapore entity.  Directed 
accordingly.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 14 :: 
 
7. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee Mr. Sriram Seshad ri, CA, 
submitted that the AO/DRP have erred in stating tha t the assessee has a 
PE in India.  The Ld. Counsel for the assessee furt her submitted that the 
assessee neither have a fixed PE nor dependent agen t PE in India under 
the provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Indi a Singapore DTAA.  
The Ld. Counsel for the assessee further referring to the business model 
of the assessee submitted that the group is engaged  in the business of 
providing end-to-end Supply Chain Solutions for all  categories of 
Information Technology products and Consumer & Life style products.  The 
assessee follows a direct business model wherein, t he products and 
services are sold predominantly to the end customer s, who are medium 
and large enterprises.  The assessee acts as fulfil lment center between 
the vendor and the end customer, wherein, the deal is stroked either by 
the vendor or end customer directly or through the channel partner. The 
assessee chosen as the distributor for the deal bas ed on the ability of 
giving viable credit period.  In so far as business  in India, the assessee 
does business with customers with SEZ/STPs.  In the  process, the 
assessee had taken support from its holding company  M/s.REDIL, referred 
to as ‘Dollar Team’ in respect of certain back offi ce operations. The 
support provided by the ‘Dollar Team’ is mainly tha t of acting as a 
communication channel between the assessee and the customer/vendor 
and channel partners.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 15 :: 
 
8. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee further rejected  observations of 
the AO in light of survey conducted u/s.133A of the  Act, and submitted 
that the AO predominantly relied upon statement rec orded from some 
employees of Indian entity called ‘Dollar Team’ and  certain e-mail 
communications between the assessee and its holding  company in India 
and came to conclusion that there is a fixed place of PE in India and 
dependent agent PE in India.  The AO had mainly rel ied upon one junior 
employee namely Mr. Prabhakaran who was not even em ployed with the 
assessee during the relevant assessment year.  Furt her, Mr. Prabhakaran 
himself in his statement highlights that if the cus tomer is not satisfied 
with the commerce, then the customer is directed to  report Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (in short “OEMs") for furth er negotiation.  The 
sworn statement of Mr. Prabhakaran is contrary to s tatement of various 
representatives of customers and other senior emplo yees and therefore, 
cannot be relied upon.  He further referring to the  decision of the Hon’ble 
Madras High Court in the case of CIT v. S. Khader K han Son reported in 
[2007] 300 ITR 157,submitted that sworn statement r ecorded during 
survey, has no evidentiary value and cannot be reli ed upon.  Further, the 
Revenue has ignored the statement given by client i .e. Zoho Corporation 
from its employee Mr.G.N.Nagarajan and Sify Technol ogies from their 
employees Mr.V.Venkataraman, whereby it is evident that they negotiate 
directly with OEM. The Revenue ignored statement gi ven by various other 
employees who were employed during the relevant yea r like statement ofIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 16 :: 
 
Mr.Marimuthu, Ms.Nalini, Mr.Venkateswara Rao, Mr.Ab raham Cherian and 
all these employees were employed during the releva nt assessment year 
and are aware of business model of the assessee.  I f you go through their 
statements, they clearly stated that employees of ‘ Dollar Team’ only do 
back end support services and they do not have any targets, 
responsibilities of sales, etc.   
9.  The Ld. Counsel for the assessee further submitted  that the 
Revenue had also relied upon certain e-mail communi cations between the 
assessee and Indian entity and also quotations sent  by Mr. Prabhakaran, 
to few customers and argued that the assessee is ca tering to clients of its 
holding company for their import requirements in or der to get them duty 
benefit and for this purpose, the assessee procures  goods from OEM 
through its Singapore Office, but all works related  to supply and service 
activities is carried out from Indian Office throug h ‘Dollar Team’,. But, 
facts remains that although, Indian team sent quota tions to customers in 
India, but such quotations are subject to approval of OEMs.  In case, any 
negotiations are required to finalize the price, th en the assessee does not 
have any role and ultimately the end customers and OEMs are negotiating 
the price and settle the contract.  Therefore, from  the above, it is very 
clear that the observations of the AO that ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian entity 
constitutes fixed place of PE in India is highly in correct.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 17 :: 
 
10. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee referring to Arti cle-5 of India 
Singapore DTAA submitted that in order to establish  fixed place of 
business for the non-resident existed in India, the  premise where the 
non-resident carry out its operations, was at the d isposal of the non-
resident for the impugned assessment year.  The Rev enue does not show 
that employee of a foreign company had travel to In dia to occupy the 
premise of M/s.REDIL and such a place was habituall y available at the 
disposal of the foreign company through the persons  of those employees 
in India.  The Revenue has ignored the statement of  all employees 
indicate that their work is confined to clerical or  support activities such as 
invoicing purchase order, listing, credit evaluatio n, coordinating for 
payments and passing on all information relating to  shipping, etc.  The 
Revenue had also ignored the statement of clients o f the assessee which 
clarifies the position of the assessee.  Therefore,  he submitted that 
merely on the basis of statement of one employee wh o was not employed 
during the relevant assessment year, the AO cannot take a stand that the 
‘Dollar Team’ has performed all sales functions of the assessee in India 
and thus, said functions constitutes fixed place of  PE in India.  In this 
regard, he relied upon the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the 
case of E-funds IT Solution Inc. reported in [2017]  399 ITR 34 (SC). The 
assessee had also relied upon the decision of the H on’ble Supreme Court 
in the case of UOI v. UAE Exchange Centre Ltd. repo rted in [2020] 425IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 18 :: 
 
ITR 30 and also the decision of Mumbai Bench of ITA T in the case of 
Airlines Rotables Ltd. v. JDIT reported in [2010] 4 4 SOT 368. 
11. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee further referring  to various 
documents submitted that the onus is on the Revenue  to prove that the 
assessee has a dependent agent PE in India and to s how this, the 
Revenue has to prove that the ‘Dollar Team’ acted a s agent.  In order to 
bring dependent agency PE, the agent is legally and  economically 
dependent on the foreign company and that the ‘Doll ar Team’ had 
authority to conclude contracts in India and such a uthority habitually used 
and further, such contracts were not purchase of go ods or merchandise.  
The AO has not shown that the ‘Dollar Team’ acted a s agent who had the 
authority to conclude contracts and habitually did so, in contrast, the 
evidences with the AO clearly shows that its client s who have directly deal 
with the OEMs and concludes the contracts.  The Rev enue had also 
completely discredit the role of channel partners w ho have also been paid 
Overriding Commission by the assessee.  The entire premise of the case 
of the Revenue has been that foreign companies oper ating under the 
control of the Indian company, this completely take s away the 
characterization of the dependent agency PE for the  Indian company. On 
the contrary, Indian entity is a large listed compa ny, which is manifold 
items larger than the foreign company and thus, it cannot be said that 
India entity is dependent on foreign entity.  In th is regard, he relied uponIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 19 :: 
 
the decision of the ITAT Mumbai Benches in the case  of Varian India (P) 
Ltd.  v. ADIT reported in 142 ITD 692. 
12. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee on attribution of  profits submitted 
that the AO for the purpose of attribution of profi ts took un-audited 
turnover figures as the starting point which was fo und during the course 
of survey for computing the profit of the assessee.   The DRP has given 
directions to the AO to use audited financial state ment of assessee, but 
the AO has not followed the directions of the DRP.  He further submitted 
that for computing profit attributable to Indian op erations, the Revenue 
has included non-India region sales for the purpose  of attribution of 
profits to India.  This is clearly against the prin ciples of taxation.  
Therefore, he submitted that while computing profit  attributable to India 
sales made to other countries through channel partn ers must be excluded 
for attribution.  The AO had also arrived at the at tribution percentage by 
taking average of three components i.e. percentage of employee cost of 
the assessee as compared to that of M/s.REDIL, perc entage of assets of 
the assessee as compared to that of M/s.RDPL and ar bitrary risk, 
weightage of 20% to the assessee on the basis of in voicing is done under 
the name of the assessee.  Accordingly, the average  of 10.35% was 
attributed to the assessee and the balance 89.65% w as attributed to the 
PE.  Therefore, he submitted that if at all, it is held that there is a PE in 
India and profits is liable to tax, then a reasonab le amount of profit needs 
to be attributed and in this regard, relied upon th e decision of the Hon’bleIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 20 :: 
 
Madras High Court in the case of Annamalais Timber Trust & Co. v. CIT 
reported in [1961] 41 ITR 781 (Mad.) and the decisi on of Special Bench of 
ITAT in the case of Motorola Inc. reported in 95 IT D 269. 
13. The Ld.DR strongly supporting the order of the AO as well as the 
ld.DRP submitted that survey conducted u/s.133A of the Act, reveals that 
although the assessee is having a PE in India, but was not filing return of 
income.  Further, during the course of survey, it w as noticed that a group 
of employees called ‘Dollar Team’ of M/s.REDIL, was  looking after the 
business activities of the assessee, M/s.RDPL, Sing apore.  The AO had 
explained the ‘Dollar Business’ and as per which, s ome of the Indian 
customers for import requirement, approaches the In dian holding 
company and the holding company staff facilitated i mport of goods 
through the assessee from Singapore for the purpose  of availing duty 
benefit.  During the course of survey, statements f rom various employees 
were recorded and in response to a specific questio n, they admitted that 
right from procuring orders from customers to recov ery of receivables, all 
work is done by ‘Dollar Team’.  However, the materi al has been 
dispatched from Singapore Office and further, in ca se of price difference 
or any negotiations, the same will be directly done  by OEM and 
customers.  The Ld.DR further referring to various e-mail communications 
and other evidences submitted that the all employee s were appointed by 
holding company.  Further, the assessee is employed  very few 
employees, which means, there is no much work carri ed out in SingaporeIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 21 :: 
 
office, except shipping of goods.  It is further no ted that ‘Dollar Team’ 
employees directly reported to Mr. Ashish Arora, Si ngapore Office, for 
various issues including concluding contracts with the customers, terms of 
payment and credit period, etc. From the above, it is clear that except 
shipment, all other work is carried out by Indian O ffice.  The Ld.DR 
further referring date of incorporation of Assessee  Company submitted 
that when SEZ Act came into effect in India, the In dian holding company 
has established a subsidiary in Singapore, to facil itate import of goods to 
its Indian customer. The assessee is catering needs  of customers of its 
holding company in India. In fact, except billing d one in USD, all other 
aspects including supplying very same equipments to  non-SEZ Units, is 
done from holding company.  The AO has brought out various facts to 
come to the conclusion that their exist a fixed pla ce of PE and dependent 
agent PE in India and the income of the assessee is  liable to tax in India.  
Therefore, he submitted that there is no merit in t he arguments of the 
assessee that ‘Dollar Team’ does only back Office o perations for 
Singapore entity and does not constitute a PE in In dia.  As regards, 
attribution of profits, the Ld.DR relied upon the f indings of the DRP.  In 
this regard, he has filed detailed written submissi ons, which has been 
reproduced as under: 
1. Survey and detection of ‘Dollar Business’ of Red ington India (REDIL);  
A survey operation carried out in the business· pre mise of Redington India (RED IL) 
resulted into detection of group of employees of In dian company REDIL were working as 
‘Dollar Team’and they looked after the business act ivities of appellant Redington 
Distribution Pte Ltd, Singapore (RDPL).IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 22 :: 
 
i.  In page no.5, the A.O had explained the ‘Dollar Busi ness’. Some of the Indian 
customers for their import requirement for I. T inf rastructure booked the items to 
Singapore subsidiary in US dollar instead of INR fo r the import duty benefit of their 
units operating in SEZ. In the employee list certai n employees were shown as 
being in the ‘Dollar Business’ Department.  
ii.  Paragraph-6 is a crucial finding recorded by the A. O. It was recorded that the 
‘Dollar Business’ was happening from India and was being performed by ‘Dollar 
Business’ team of Redington India (REDIL). 
iii.  At paragraph- 7, the A.O recorded all the factual fi ndings of the survey. 
Specifically, the modus operandi adopted for busine ss between Cognizant and the 
appellant/ RDPL.  
iv.  The Team Leader of ‘Dollar Team’, Mr.Prabhakaran ha d explained the process flow 
of the entire business and it was discussed by AO in  detail at paragraph-8 by 
referring some of the email correspondences found a nd impounded during the 
course of survey.  
v.  MrPrabhakaran had explained step by step the whole process from point no.A to N. 
It is starting with approach of procurement team at  the respective customer place, 
understanding their future and current requirement,  contacting respective OEM 
(Original Equipment Manufacturer), preparation of bi ll of materials, negotiating the 
deal, finalizing the deal, confirmation of shipment  plan, preparation of shipping 
documents with the support of MrMuthu stationed at Singapore, follow up of the 
payment etc. From approaching the customer to end o f sale cycle, MrPrabhakaran 
had explained the process clearly. These two pages of the assessment order is 
sufficient to demonstrate that ‘Dollar Team’ of RED  IL only carrying out the whole 
business on behalf of RDPL, Singapore.  
vi.  In paragraph-9 another set of emails between the ve ndor Oracle and REDIL was 
referred by the AO for demonstrating the role ofREDI L, India.  
vii.  The A.O. relied upon the crucial e-mail in page no.1 0 of the assessment order and 
observed at para-10 that the subject of the e-mail was pertaining to outstanding 
payment from the end of RDPL, Singapore. However, t his mail was addressed to 
REDIL employees.  
viii.  Ample material evidences gathered from the premise of REDIL had resulted into a 
finding that ‘Dollar Team’ of Redington India is both Fixed PE a s well as 
dependent PE of Redington Singapore (RDPL) . It was elaborated at paragraph 
79 to 92 from page number 54 to 61 of the assessmen t order passed.  
2. Creation of Redington Distribution Pte Ltd (RDPL ) Singapore:  
In the year 2005, the SEZ Act was introduced by Min istry of Commerce. Simultaneously, 
section 10AA of the IT Act was also brought into th e Statute where it allowed tax benefit 
for the units begins to manufacture or produce arti cles or things or provide services in 
SEZ.  
Those companies where their units were set up in SE Z approached the REDIL, India for 
getting duty benefit on their goods imported from f oreign countries. REDIL had the strong 
customer base in India over a period of years. In t he year 2005 only, R.DPL was formed 
outside the country in Singapore. This fact is evid ent from the audit report of RDPL 
submitted by the company for the A.Y 2011-12 in the  paper book. [refer page no.212].  
To meet out their client's demand ‘Dollar Business’  of REDIL-India was started in the office 
premise of REDIL in India.  
2.1 Whether any dispute that ‘Dollar Team’ of RED I L assisted those customers to get duty 
benefit of their units situated in SEZ?  
No dispute on the above facts. This was accepted ca tegorically that the ‘Dollar Team’ of 
REDIL  actively involved in this business to book the inv oices in US$ value in the name of 
RDPL Singapore to enable the Indian customers to ge t duty benefit of their SEZ unit.  
2.1 Whether the employees of RED IL, India engaged in the said business?IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 23 :: 
 
YES. This has been proved by gathering sufficient m aterial evidences from the survey 
premise of RED IL through a survey operation.  
3. Recruitment and management of ‘Dollar Team’:  
How the ‘Dollar Team’ supported RDPL and who manage s the ‘Dollar Team’ has been 
elaborated by the AO in various paragraphs.  
3.1. Who recruited ‘Dollar Team’? Whether RDPL or R EDIL?  
Ans: The employees of ‘Dollar Business’ were recrui ted by REDIL. All their appointment 
letters, promotion, increment was given under the s ignature of HR team ofREDIL. The AO 
reported the details in the assessment order. They were all in the pay role ofREDIL, India. 
At paragraph-14 in page no.17, A.O recorded that hir ing of ‘Dollar Team’ catering to RDPL 
was handled by Redington India Ltd on the request o f RDPL. It was recorded that 
employees of the ‘Dollar Business’ were always recr uited by Redington India, where their 
appointment letter, promotion, increment letter etc  were given under the signature of Sri 
PS Neogi, Joint CEO and Sri Jabez Selwyn, HR head of  REDIL team. Refer the chart 
reproduced at next page of the order.  
3.2. Who was the approving authority for RDPL?  
At paragraph-15 in page no.18, another finding was recorded where, Mr. Ashish Arora of 
RDPL cannot decide anything independently for the n eed for man power for ‘Dollar Team’. 
He has to mandatorily get the approval from Mr.Neog i, Jt. COO, REDIL. The A.O 
reproduced some of the sample mails in page no.18 &  19. All those employees were sitting 
in the business premise of REDIL and actively engag ed and assisted in ‘Dollar Business’ of 
RDPL, Singapore.  
3.3. Who manages and control RDPL?  
The A.O brought out another crucial fact in paragrap h-17 of page no.20 that management 
of RDPL, Singapore was monitored by REDIL - India.  
At paragraph- I 8, the structure of ‘Dollar Team’ a nd the role and responsibility of each 
personnel placed in the hierarchy was brought on re cord by relying upon a letter written by 
Sri Ashish Arora. It is scanned and produced at pag e no.22.  
At paragraph-19 in page no.13, he has given the emp hasis of the letter of Mr.Ashish Arora 
and recorded that these group of employees were per forming sales and operation activity 
with both vendors and customers of RDPL. This was a lso discussed between paragraph 66 
and 68 of page no.45 to 47.  
4. What was the customer/client base for RDPL?  
Attention is drawn to paragraph-7 of page no.7 of t he assessment order. The ‘Dollar Team’ 
of REDIL, India had the corporate customers in Indi a, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka with 
whom REDIL already has existing INR business. 
REDIL developed client base over a period of years.  RDPL, Singapore which is only a 
branch office of RED IL catered to the existing cli ents of RED IL for the zero-duty business 
of SEZ units. These evidences placed at page no.28 to 30.  
4.1 Evidence from Financials of RDPL, Singapore:  
This fact is can also be supported with RDPL financ ials placed in paper book of the 
appellant at page number 236.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 24 :: 
 
Out of total receivables of 35,555,125 USS, nearly 7 5% of the receivable were from India. 
Srilanka and Bangladesh contribution was negligible .  
4.2 Whether the credit term negotiations of RDPL we re done by REDIL 
employees? 
YES. Attention is drawn to e-mail correspondences r eproduced in P.No. l O & 11. This was 
also explained in detail by Mr.Prabhakaran, that is  discussed at para-8 in page no.8 to 9 of 
the assessment order.  
5. Who did vendor payment follow-up? REDIL or RDPL?   
Ample evidences were brought on record that only RE DIL, Indian employees of ‘Dollar 
Team’ followed up the vendor payment on behalf of R DPL, Singapore. This was once again 
demonstrated through sufficient e-mails found and i mpounded during the course of 
survey. This was demonstrated through Wipro mails s canned and presented in page no.28 
& 29 and Oracle vendor mails also scanned and reprod uced.  
5.1 With whom the RDPL customers were interacting?  
For both INR business of RED IL and USD business of  RDPL, the only contact point is the 
REDIL employees. This was demonstrated at paragraph  37 & 38 of the assessment order.  
5.2 To whom the e-mails were addressed?  
1. The A.O demonstrated this at paragraph-42. The A. O referred that entire set of 
mails were addressed to Ashish Arora of RDPL, Singa pore and all the other addressees 
were the persons belonging to REDIL ‘Dollar Team’. In the next paragraph, he gave the 
finding that the business of RDPL arises from the e xisting customer base of REDIL 
wherever the customer wants duty free equipment for  their SEZ unit.  
ii. If not Ashish why other employees of RDPL were not contacted?  
The assessee was trying to claim that when Ashish o f RDPL was not available, the 
customers had contacted other employees of REDIL em ployees. However, A.O at 
paragraph-57, critically observed that why those cu stomers did not communicate with any 
other persons of RDPL in Singapore. The AO demonstra ted that those mails highlighted the 
closely dependent nature of relationship RDPL with REDIL.  
111. The A.O. relied upon the crucial e-mail in page  no. IO of the assessment order and 
observed at para-10 that the subject of the e-mail was pertaining to outstanding payment 
from the end of Redington -Singapore. However, this  mail was addressed to REDIL 
employees. The communications were sent to end cust omers that were under the letter 
head of Redington India under the signature of Redi ngton India employee.  
iv. In page no.12, 13 and 14, the A.O had scanned an d reproduced some of those 
letters. These letters stated that order to be plac ed to Redington -Singapore. This was 
prepared by Mr. Prabakaran, Team leader , in the letter head of RED IL, addressed to 
the customers.  
v. At paragraph-11 in page no.14, the A.O discussed about the statement of Sri 
Vignesh, Account Executive of Redington  India. He was responsible for preparing the 
accounts receivable data for RDPL, based on the ban k statements received from 
Singapore. He was also responsible for following of  the payments. His reply to the question 
no.3 dated 31.12.2017 is crucial.  
vi. At paragraph-12 at page no.15, he had discussed  about the role of Sri N. 
Venkateshwara Rao, Dy. Manager (Credit) . He is working inRedington India Ltd since 
January, 2006. The questions and replies given by h im at question no.4,5.7 and 10 areIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 25 :: 
 
crucial for the relevant issue on hand. In reply to  question no. 10, he was able to give 
details of entire sales particulars of RDPL, Singap ore.  
vii. At paragraph-13, the A.O had explained the enti re process, activity done, activity 
of ‘Dollar Team’ of REDIL and activity of RDPL. He had summarized that all the activities 
were carried out by ‘Dollar Team’ of RED IL in Indi a in a tabular Format. RDPL, Singapore 
only carried out packing, bill of lading, preparati on of airway bill.  
viii. As per the findings of the AO, RDPL Singapore  was only doing logistics service for 
sending the goods to various destination and rest o f the activities were handled and 
controlled by REDIL-India  
6. Process Flow Explanation-Demonstration that RDPL  just provide logistic 
services for Units in SEZ:  
At paragraph-8, the whole process explained by Mr. Prabakaran, the team leader was 
discussed by the A. 0. He had categorically admitte d that he used to approach the 
procurement team at the respective customer place, based on existing relationship. He 
had explained the process flow. The entire process flow was summarized at page no.9.  
6.1 Whether the statement of Mr. Prabhakaran can be  completely ignored?  
The appellant counsel relied upon the decision of M adras High Court in the case of CIT Vs. 
S. Khader Khan Son (2007) in 300 ITR 157 and pleaded  that the statements recorded on 
oath u/s 133(A) of the I.T. Act do not have any evide ntiary value. However, this decision 
was overruled by Bombay High Court in the case of D r. Dinesh Jain Vs. ITO-11(2)-2 
(2014) 45 taxmann.com 442(Bombay) and also Allahabad  High Court in the case of 
Sanjeev Agrawal Vs. Income Tax Settlement Commissio ner, Allahabad (2015)56 
taxmann.com 214. Hon'bleITAT, Chennai A Bench in th e case of ITO Vs. N. Easwaran in 
ITA No.2117/Mds/2016 have analyzed all these decision s and held that though the 
Assessing Officer is not permitted to record stateme nt on oath during the course of survey, 
merely because the statement was recorded on oath, the facts found during the course of 
survey cannot be brushed aside and the statements r ecorded during the course of survey 
cannot be completely ignored. Hence, the statements  recorded during the course of survey 
and the evidences gathered cannot be ignored altoge ther as contended by the appellant.  
The Counsel for the appellant company selectively r ead the business process explained by 
Prabhakaran at paragraph-8. He was particular about  point 'C' and contended that if the 
customer is not satisfied with the commercials he w ill put the customer to the respective 
OEM. However, at point 'D' Prabhakaran stated that r ate negotiation will be done by him 
and such decision will be acceptable by his team he ad as he was only aware of the 
prevailing circumstances. All the rest of the work flow explained by Mr.Prabhakaran was 
selectively omitted by the him. He was cherry picki ng few assertions from the statement 
that suits to his convenience and left remaining pa rt of the same statement that was not 
favourable to the company.  
7.  Whether it was a back-office support or back bo ne support?  
This was demonstrated by the AO at paragraph 40-43. She also demonstrated the same 
from paragraph 63 to 65 of the Assessment Order. It was mentioned that if Ashish Arora of 
RDPL was not available, the other employees of RDPL  should have been addressed by the 
vendors in their e-mails and not to the employees o f REDIL. If it was a simple back-office 
support, RED IL must have charged RDPL for all thos e services rendered. In the present 
case no such back-office support services were char ged by REDIL. 
8.  Whether RDPL can be just a branch office of RED IL existed solely for bill 
trading in USS for the units operating in SEZ?  
YES. RDPL cannot function without the support of RE DIL. It doesn't have any separate 
client base in India.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 26 :: 
 
The A.O in paragraph-13 of the order presented the functions of RDPL in a tabular format. 
This had clearly demonstrated that except preparati on of packing list, bill of lading, airway 
bill and shipment plan coordination, no other activ ities were performed by RDPL. This fact 
was also confirmed in the sworn statement of Shri A braham Cherian, recorded on 
18.12.2017 u/s 131 of the IT Act. Attention is drawn  to question no.14. He had mentioned 
the names of some of the RDPL employees, where all those persons he mentioned in the 
sworn statement were working in logistic department  only. Rest of the activities were all 
carried out by ‘Dollar Team’ of REDIL employees.  
He is working as a General Manager of RED IL since 2005. He had explained the nature of 
business operation from question no.8 to 14.  
REDIL, India formed a company in Singapore in the n ame of Redington Distribution Pte Ltd 
(RDPL) solely to raise some invoices in US$ for help ing its existing clients in India to get 
import duty benefit of their SEZ unit.  
9.  Reason for reopening - Other evidences from e-f iling:  
The reasons for reopening are enclosed here. It may  be appreciated that on account of 
sufficient data available in the hands of AO, notic e u/s 148 of the IT Act was issued by the 
AO. Coupled with non- filing of tax return, the AO al so gathered sufficient evidences during 
survey to demonstrate the existence of PE in India.  The information available in the hands 
of AO is as under;  
► Prima facie the appellant was a non-filer for the A .Y 2011-12. 
► The first return filed by the company was for A.Y 2 012-13 on 29.03.2014.  
► The second return filed for A.Y.2013-14 was on 24.0 3.2015. 
► Both the returns were filed in ITR Form-6 and both were belated return u/s 139(4) 
of the IT Act.  
► In both the returns, the appellant company admitted  income from business or 
profession in the part -A "Profit and Loss Account" . The relevant copies of ITRs are 
enclosed.  
► This was another evidence that RDPL had PE in India  in those early years.  
9.1  Double stand adopted by the appellant:  
i.  If Indian customers paid the sum in INR and deduct TDS, the appellant admitted 
the same as business income accrued in source state .  
ii.  If the same Indian customer paid the sum in US$, th en they claimed that it was 
income of RDPL, Singapore and not Indian Income.  
iii.  This is clear cut double stand adopted by RDPL and it is exposed with sufficient 
material evidences.  
iv.  Until 2019 the stand was different; after receipt o f notice u/s 148 of the IT Act, 
those INR receipts of A Y 2012-13 and 2013-14 were shifted to different schedule.  
v.  It is clear cut double stand.  
10. Whether no evidence pertaining to A.Y.2011-12 w as found?  
The counsel argued on 27.07.2022 by repeatedly ment ioning that not even a single piece 
of evidence was available in the hands of Departmen t to reopen the assessment for 
A.Y.2011-12. Whether it was correct?  
Answer is NO .  
Attention is drawn into page no.28 and 29 of the as sessment order. This was the e-mail 
dated 22.11.2010 sent by Mani Kumar to Ashish Arora  regarding Wipro orders. The Area 
Sales Manager, Mani Kumar has sent this mail to app rove the order of Wipro. On the same 
day i.e. 22-11-2010 at 11.15 A.M. Ashish Arora sent  reply to Mani Kumar by confirming 
that if the payment terms are okay.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 27 :: 
 
In the above mail, Mani Kumar of ‘Dollar Team’ of R EDIL was calculating the profit margin 
of Wipro. Manikumar requested Mr. Ashish to approve  the same so that he can finalize the 
order.  
Another mail dated 30.09.2010 was A VP of Real-time  solutions to Abraham Cherian. Mr. 
Chandrasekaran was a person working in A VP Finance  and Commercial and sent the mail 
to Abraham Cherian regarding finalization of the te rms and conditions.  
It is to be mentioned here that N.Venkateswara Rao( Dy. General Manager-Credit) has 
been working in REDIL since January, 2006. Sri Abra ham Cherian, General Manager, RED 
IL has been working since 2005. ·Their statements r ecorded u/s 133A and u/s 131 of the 
IT Act, respectively, also formed evidence in suppo rt of the contention of the Revenue that 
REPL had PE in India.  
Hence the argument that no evidence was found for F Y.2010-11 is not acceptable. RDPL 
had not filed any return of income for the A.Y. 201 1-12.  
11. What was the evidence for existence of channel partners?  
i.  Though the appellant claimed that business was carr ied out through channel 
partners of RDPL, no evidence like party wise ledge r account of channel partners, 
address and assessment particulars of the channel p artners, bank account copy of 
RDPL, reflecting the payment made to · channel part ners were given. This was 
discussed clearly at paragraph 23.  
ii.  At paragraph-50 and 51 in page no.37, the appellant 's claim that they engaged 
channel partners and paid commission and hence thei r salary expenditure was low 
was countered by the A.O. AO had reiterated that the  ‘Dollar Team’ sitting in RED 
IL is doing the business and not channel partners o f RDPL as claimed. Commission 
agents cannot be a decision maker. 
12. Replies to the emails by the appellant and coun ter argument by AO:  
i.  Between paragraph-52 to 56 in page no.38 to 42, the  mail relied upon by the 
appellant and the AO's critical observation on those  submissions were made. This 
was to demonstrate that ‘Dollar Team’ of REDIL cate red the needs of RDPL.  
ii.  At paragraph-58 in page no.42, the A.O discussed ab out letters signed by 
Prabakaran, the counter objection by the appellant.  He has stated that the 
appellant had conveniently ignored the second lette r addressed to Olam where it 
has been mentioned that billing needs to be done in  the name of RDPL. He had 
mentioned that the appellant not offered any explan ation as why a person of 
REDIL was communicating with a client and discussin g all the aspects of contract 
by informing them that the communication should be with REDIL employee but the 
billing should be in the name of RDPL. Hence, the a rgument of back-end support is 
no longer hold good.  
iii.  At paragraph-59, the A.O relied upon the statements of Vignesh, Nalini, Marimuthu 
and Venkateshwara Rao and quoted that REDIL team is  securing orders from the 
customers. The same team member is following up the  payments. By this way, he 
disproved the claim that the functions were perform ed by channel partners.  
iv.  At paragraph-62, the A.O relied upon the Wipro mail s as well as some of the mails 
from Oracle and held that it was REDIL people were f ollowing up the vendor 
payment of RDPL.  
Before Hon'ble ITAT, the appellant's counsel has on ly questioned and challenged 
the evidences gathered by the Revenue during the co urse of survey without 
giving their independent evidence that the entire b usiness activities were totally 
managed only in Singapore. He could not come out wi th their set of evidences in 
support of their contention. 
13. Whether RDPL, Singapore had any tangible or int angible asset?IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 28 :: 
 
Analysis of Financials of RDPL, Singapore for the A Y 2011-12:  
It is placed at page number 200 of the paper book  
1.  It was audited by Ernst and Young LLP. The director s are Sri. 
RangareddyJayachandran, Sri. Ramanadhan Srinivasan and Sri. Raj Shankar.  
2.  The profit for the year 31-03-2011 was 2,156,746 US $ and the Rupee equivalent 
was Rs.9, 70,53,570/ out of total sales of 225,766,2 77 US$. It is equal to 
Rs.1015.94 Cr approximately.  
3.  For such a huge turnover,  
 
► the net book value of Plant and equipment was just 21,256 US$ that was equal to 
Rs.9,56,520/.  
► For the company it was just 6,710 US$ equal to Rs.3 ,01,950/.  
► The intangibles as on 31-3-2010 was NIL for the com pany and group. 
► The intangible as on 31-3-2011 for the group was ju st 2,919 US$ that was 
equivalent to Rs.98,595/. The intangible for the com pany was NIL for the FY 2010-
11  
 
4.  Inventory was 11,544,461 US$ (i.e. Rs.51,95,00,000/ ) whereas there is no office 
or go down to store the goods. No building was show n as asset in balance sheet 
filed by RDPL, Singapore to handle those inventory.   
5.  Trade receivable as on 31-3-2011 for the group was 35,674,253 US$ and for the 
company it was 36,679,325 USS. Out of this receivabl e, 73% of the receivables 
are from India. It was disclosed at page number 35 of the Financials.  
14. Whether the case lay compiled given by appellan t were relevant?  
12.It is submitted that none of the case laws submi tted by the appellant were relevant to 
the facts and circumstances of the present case in hand. Ample material evidences were 
brought on record to demonstrate that RDPL Singapor e had PE in India. In other words, it 
is just functioned as branch office of Indian compa ny REDIL to book the invoices in US$. 
Hence those case laws relied upon by the appellant were not relevant to the facts and 
circumstances discussed above. 
15. Summary: 
► For the above said reasons it is established that R DPL is acting like a branch office 
of REDIL-India. It is totally controlled by Redingt on India. The Singapore office had 
simply done some logistics service to cater the nee ds of existing clients of REDIL-
India who are operating in SEZ units.  
► To avail duty benefit of those clients, the invoice s were raised in the name of 
RDPL, Singapore.  
► It is for these reasons the AO held that ‘Dollar Tea m’ of Redington India is both 
Fixed PE as well as dependent PE of Redington Singa pore (RDPL). It was 
elaborated at paragraph 79 to 92 from page number 5 4 to 6 I of the assessment 
order passed.  
► It is prayed that the findings recorded by AO may b e upheld as the appellant did 
not bring any contrary material to rebut the survey  findings and factual findings 
recorded in the assessment order.  
► Regarding attribution of profit, the findings given  by the DRP is relied upon.  
► It is pertinent to mention here that I have also ma de a written submission dated 
18-02-2022 on defective Form-36B filed by the appel lant company where I have 
brought to your attention that the appellant mentio ned at first page that the name 
of the company as Redington Distribution Pte Ltd, C hennai. It is not only in the 
first Form-36B, but also in the revised form the sa me name and place was 
mentioned. It is for these reasons I have requested  for the passports of the 
Directors of the appellant company.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 29 :: 
 
14. We have heard both the parties, perused the materi als available on 
record and gone through orders of the authorities b elow. The facts borne 
out from the records indicate that the assessee is a part of Redignton 
Group, which is Indian based listed company.  The a ssessee is a 
subsidiary M/s.REDIL.  The group is engaged in the business of providing 
end-to-end supply chain solutions for all categorie s of IT products, 
Consumer & Lifestyle products.  The assessee follow s business-to-
business (B2B) model wherein, the company purchase from the vendors 
and sales to the customers through channel partners /sub-
distributors/multi brand retailers, etc., who will then sell to end-users.  
The assessee had also an indirect business model i. e. selling the products 
through channel partners, retailers, who in turn se ll such products to the 
end-users.  The main customers of the assessee comp any in India are 
Cognizant Technology, Sify Technology, Zoho Corpora tion, etc.  In respect 
to business in India, the profile of the customers who have business 
contracts with the assessee includes major Software  Development 
companies and Information Technology companies whic h have had their 
units in SEZ/STPIs and also non-SEZ Units and non-S TPI Units.  Further, 
the assessee had obtained the support from its hold ing company 
M/s.REDIL, referred to as ‘Dollar Team’ for renderi ng services to its 
customers in India.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 30 :: 
 
15. A survey operation u/s.133A of the Act, was carrie d out in the 
business premise of M/s.REDIL and during the course  of survey, a group 
of employees of Indian company (holding company) ca lled as ‘Dollar 
Team’ was working and looked after the business act ivities of the 
assessee i.e. M/s.RDPL, Singapore.  The AO has disc ussed the modus 
operandi of business model of the assessee and its holding company on 
the basis of findings of survey operations and as p er said findings, the 
customers of Assessee Company and its Indian holdin g company, are one 
and the same.  The assessee Indian holding company M/s.REDIL, supplies 
various products to companies like Cognizant Techno logy, Sify 
Technology, Zoho Corporation, etc., and such busine ss is carried out in 
the name of M/s.RDPL.  Further, as and when very sa me customers 
require import duty benefit, the same business was routed through the 
assessee company from its Singapore Office.  It was  further noted that 
the ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian holding company exclusi vely works for 
assessee company right from identifying the custome rs, negotiating the 
price, follow-up of outstanding receivables, etc.  The AO has discussed 
how ‘Dollar Team’ is assisting the assessee company  in light of sworn 
statement recorded from various employees of Indian  holding company, 
M/s.REDIL and observed that the Sales Manager of ‘D ollar Team’ 
categorically admitted in a statement that he negot iates with Indian 
customers for their import requirements so as to av ail duty benefit and 
also fix terms & conditions of sales.  He further s tated in his statementIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 31 :: 
 
recorded during survey that except shipment of good s from Singapore 
Office, all other activities are carried out from I ndian Office.  The AO had 
also discussed the modus operandi of the assessee c ompany in light of 
various email correspondence between the ‘Dollar Te am’ of Indian holding 
company and assessee company in Singapore along wit h quotations 
submitted to customers and observed that the busine ss of assessee 
company was totally carried out by ‘Dollar Team’ of  M/s.REDIL.  
Therefore, he opined that there is a fixed place PE  in India and also 
dependent agency PE in India of the assessee.  
16. In light of above factual back ground, if you exam ine whether the 
functions carried out by ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian ho lding company 
constitutes a fixed place PE, one has to understand  the term PE as 
defined in Article-5 of India Singapore DTAA.  Arti cle-5(1) of India 
Singapore DTAA, defines the term ‘PE’ means a fixed  place of business 
through which the business of the enterprise is who lly or partly carried 
on.  Similarly, Article-5(8) of India Singapore DTA A, defines the term 
‘dependent agent’ PE which means where a person, ot her than an agent 
of an independent status, is acting in a Contractin g State on behalf of an 
enterprise of the other Contracting State that ente rprise shall be deemed 
to have a PE in the first-mentioned state, if “He has and habitually 
exercises in that state an authority to conclude co ntracts on behalf of 
enterprise, and also he habitually secures orders i n the first-mentioned 
state, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise i tself or for the enterpriseIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 32 :: 
 
and other enterprises controlling, controlled by, o r subject to the same 
common control, as that enterprise”.  If you go by the simple term PE as 
defined under Article 5(1), which includes a fixed place of business.  In 
this case, the facts brought out by the AO in light  of information gathered 
during survey clearly indicate the existence of fix ed place of business for 
the assessee, because, the ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian holding company 
carried out business operations of the assessee in India, which is evident 
from various facts including statement of Mr. Praba karan who had 
explained step by step the whole process starting f rom approach to 
customer place, understanding their future and curr ent requirement 
contract of respective OEM, preparation of bill of materials, negotiating 
the deal, finalizing the price, confirmation of shi pment plan with the 
support of Mr.Muthu stationed at Singapore, follow- up of the payment, 
etc.  If you go through the nature of activities ca rried out by the ‘Dollar 
Team’ for the assessee, except shipment all other a ctivities had been 
carried out from Indian Office.  Further, the AO ha s referred certain 
quotations issued by M/s.REDIL for their USD busine ss to M/s.Olam 
International, which has been issued in the name of  M/s.REDIL which 
specifically says an order to be placed on M/s.RDPL , Singapore, and other 
terms & conditions of supply.  The AO had also reli ed upon the statement 
of Mr.Vignesh, Accounts Executive, and Mr.N.Venkate swara Rao, Dy. 
Manager (Credit) and both have agreed that the ‘Dol lar Team’ of Indian 
holding company responsible for USD business of Ind ian customers.IT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 33 :: 
 
Therefore, from the above, it is very clear that ri ght from seeking orders, 
request for quote from the customer, vendor discuss ion, negotiation and 
conclusion of terms of sales, sending proforma invo ices, shipment plan 
from the customer, payment follow-up, etc., are car ried out by ‘Dollar 
Team’. But, only documents like packing list, airwa y bill, has been 
prepared by Singapore Office.  From the above, it i s very clear that 
except preparation of shipping documents, other wor k has been done by 
‘Dollar Team’ of Indian holding company.  Therefore , we are of the 
considered view that there is a fixed place of PE o f the assessee in India 
and thus, income of the assessee is liable to tax i n India.  Although, the 
Ld. Counsel for the assessee vehemently argued in l ight of statement of 
Mr.G.N.Nageswaran of Zoho Corporation and statement  of 
Mr.Venkataraman of Sify Technologies that price off ered by the assessee 
is subject to confirmation of OEMs and also OEMs ar e directly negotiating 
with customers, but other facts brought out by the AO in the statement of 
various employees, e-mail correspondence between th e assessee and 
Indian employees, and copies of sample quotation is sued to various 
customers, it is undoubtedly clear that the activit ies carried out by ‘Dollar 
Team’ of Indian holding company constitutes a fixed  place of PE in India.  
Further, the arguments of Ld.Counsel for the assess ee that work done by 
‘Dollar Team’, is nothing but a back office, servic es are devoid of merit, 
because from the nature of work carried out by the ‘Dollar Team’ it is 
abundantly clear that the services rendered by the ‘Dollar Team’ is backIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 34 :: 
 
bone of business model of the assessee and which is  further strengthened 
by the fact that the customers of Indian holding co mpany and the 
assessee company are one and the same, except to th e fact that supplies 
from assessee company are only to SEZ Units of Indi an customers.   
 
17 . In so far as various case laws relied upon by the  assessee, including 
the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the ca se of E-funds IT 
Solution Inc. (supra), there is no dispute with reg ard to the ratio laid 
down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court on the issue of f ixed place PE in India 
and as per said judgment, in order to constitute a fixed place of PE, it is 
essential that the premise of the Indian subsidiary  must be at the disposal 
of the foreign holding company and the business of the foreign company 
must be carried on through that place.  In this cas e, there is no dispute 
with regard to the fact that the premise of the Ind ian holding company is 
at the disposal of the assessee, because, the ‘Doll ar Team’ carried out 
their functions from the premise of Indian holding company and thus, said 
activities constitutes a fixed place PE in India.  As regards the decision of 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of UAE Exchan ge Centre Ltd. 
(supra), no doubt, if the services rendered by subs idiary or holding 
company are in the nature of preparatory or auxilia ry, then no PE could 
be established.  In this case, services rendered by  ‘Dollar Team’ of Indian 
holding company neither preparatory nor auxiliary, but main functions ofIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 35 :: 
 
a business entity and thus, the case law relied upo n by the Ld.Counsel for 
the assessee is of no help to the present case.  Th e Ld.Counsel for the 
assessee had also taken support from the decision o f ITAT, Mumbai 
Benches in the case of Airlines Rotables Ltd. v. JD IT (supra) and argued 
that in order to existence of PE not only that ther e should be a physical 
location, through which, the business of foreign en terprise is carried out, 
but also such a place should be at the disposal of the foreign enterprise in 
the sense that foreign enterprise should have some sort of a right to use 
the said physical location from its own business.  No dispute about ratio 
laid down by the co-ordinate Bench of ITAT on the i ssue of existence of PE 
and it dependent on facts of each case and in this case, there is no 
dispute of whatsoever with regard to existence of f ixed place PE in India 
of the assessee, because of continuous occupation o f ‘Dollar Team’ of 
Indian holding company premises and further, the bu siness of assessee is 
continuously carried out from said location.  There fore, we are of the 
considered view that there is no error in the reaso ns given by the AO to 
hold that the activities carried out by a ‘Dollar T eam’ of Indian holding 
company for the assessee constitute a fixed place P E of assessee in India. 
 
18. As regards dependent agent PE, no doubt, onus is o n the Revenue 
to prove that the assessee has a dependent agent PE  in India and to show 
this, the Revenue has to prove that the ‘Dollar Tea m’ acted as agent andIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 36 :: 
 
further, the agent is legally and economically depe ndent and also 
authority to conclude contracts and such contracts were habitually used.  
The arguments of the assessee that vendor directly negotiates with the 
customers in terms of pricing and credit and thus, the question of 
existence of dependent PE does not arise.  The Coun sel for the assessee 
further argued that the AO completely disregard the  role of channel 
partners who have also been paid Overriding Commiss ion by the 
assessee.  The statements of the clients indicate t hat they do not directly 
deal with Redington, but they deal with vendor.  We  find no substance in 
the arguments of the assessee for the simple reason  that the ‘Dollar 
Team’ of Indian holding company acts as an agent of  the assessee for 
Indian customers and further, they had authority to  conclude contracts 
and such authority has been habitually exercised to  conclude contract on 
behalf of the assessee company. Further, the eviden ces gathered during 
the course of survey and during the course of asses sment proceedings 
clearly indicate that right from sourcing of custom ers, supply of 
equipments and follow-up payments, all activities h ave been carried out 
by ‘Dollar Team’, except preparation of shipping an d export documents 
from Singapore Office.  Therefore, we are of the co nsidered view that the 
activities undertaken by the ‘Dollar Team’ of India n holding company 
constitutes a dependent agent PE and thus, on this count also the 
argument of the assessee fails. Further, to constit ute agent PE, what is 
required to be seen is activities carried out by th e agent but not economicIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 37 :: 
 
conditions. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has re lied upon the decision 
of ITAT Mumbai Benches in the case of Varian India (P) Ltd. (supra) and 
argued that the independent agent cannot constitute  a PE.  We find that 
the facts brought on record and also evidences gath ered during the 
course of assessment proceedings clearly indicate e xistence of dependent 
agent PE and thus, we are of the considered view th at the case laws 
relied upon by the assessee has no application.  
 
19. In this view of the matter and considering the fac ts and 
circumstances of the case, we are of the considered  view that ‘Dolor 
Team’ of Indian holding Company constitutes a fixed  place PE of assessee 
in India and thus, we conclude that there exists a fixed place of PE and 
also dependent agent PE of assessee company in Indi a and hence, income 
of the assessee is liable to tax in India.  The AO and the DRP has rightly 
held that there is a PE in India of the assessee an d the income is taxable 
in India and thus, we are inclined to uphold the fi ndings of the DRP and 
reject the ground taken by the assessee. 
 
20. The next issue that came up for our consideration from Grounds of 
the assessee’s appeal is attribution of profits.  T he AO for the purpose of 
attribution of profits took unaudited turnover as t he starting point which 
was found during the course of survey for computing  the profit of theIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 38 :: 
 
assessee.  The DRP in Para No.2.7 of its directions  directed the AO to 
distribute the profits shown in the books of the as sessee between the 
assessee and the PE in India.  The Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted 
that the AO has included non-Indian region sales fo r the purpose of 
attribution of profits to PE in India and clearly, this is against the 
principles of taxation.  He further submitted that without prejudice only 
the Indian sale should be the starting point.  He f urther submitted that 
royalty receipts have been separately offered to ta x and thus, same needs 
to be excluded from turnover for the purpose of att ribution of profits.  
Therefore, he submitted that the AO may be directed  to attribute a 
reasonable amount of profits to PE in India.  In th is regard, he relied upon 
the decision of the Hon’ble High Court of Madras in  the case of 
Annamalais Timber Trust & Co. (supra) and also Spec ial Bench Decision of 
ITAT in the case of Motorola Inc. (supra).  
 
21. The Ld. DR, on the other hand, supporting the orde r of the DRP, 
submitted that the DPR has directed the AO to consi der audited financials 
of the assessee company for the purpose of attribut ion of profits to PE in 
India.  Therefore, there is no error in the reasons  given by the DRP and 
their orders should be upheld. 
 
22. We have heard both the parties and perused the mat erials available 
on record. We find that the AO has considered unaud ited profit before taxIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 39 :: 
 
for the purpose of attribution of profits to PE in India.  There is no dispute 
when audited figures are available the question of adopting profit from 
unaudited financial statement does not arise. Furth er, what needs to be 
attributed to PE is the profits of foreign entity i .e. M/s.RDPL.  Therefore, 
the AO needs to distribute profits shown in the boo ks of M/s.RDPL 
between foreign entity and PE in India.  Therefore,  we are of the 
considered view that there is no error in the direc tions given by the DRP 
to adopt profit as per books of Assessee Company fo r attribution of profits 
to PE. Further, the AO had adopted profit margin of  Indian entity for the 
purpose of attribution of profits to PE. However, t he correct legal position 
is that the AO should adopt margin of Singapore ent ity and attributing the 
same between the Indian PE and Singapore entity.  T he assessee had also 
disputed non-Indian sales included by the AO for th e purpose of 
computing profits and argued that only sales made i n INR to end 
customers’ needs to be considered.  The assessee ha d also disputed 
inclusion of royalty receipts in the turnover.  How ever, facts are not clear 
and further, assessee has also unable to file the c orrect computation of 
sales made through Indian PE to compute profit whic h can be attributed 
to PE in India.  Therefore, we are of the considere d view that the issue 
needs to go back to the file of the AO for fresh co nsideration and thus, we 
set aside the issue of attribution of profits to AE  in India and direct the AO 
to re-consider the issue in light of the directions  given by the DRP as well 
as the Tribunal and also in light of the decision o f the Hon’ble Madras HighIT (TP) A No.14/Chny/2020 
M/s.Redington Distribution Pte. Ltd. 
 
:: 40 :: 
 
Court in the case of Annamalai Timber Trust & Co. ( supra) and also the 
decision of ITAT Special Bench in the case of Motor ola Inc. (supra). 
23. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is par tly allowed for 
statistical purposes. 
 Order pronounced on the 16 th  day of November, 2022, in Chennai.  
Sd/- 
(महावीरिसंह ) 
(MAHAVIR SINGH) 
उपा /VICE PRESIDENT  
  Sd/-  
(जी.मंजूनाथा ) 
 (G. MANJUNATHA ) 
लेखासद/g7021य /ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
चे/g7382ई /Chennai,  
/g7408दनांक /Dated:  16 th  November, 2022.   
TLN 
 
आदेशक/g7409/g7079ितिलिपअ/g7061ेिषत /Copy to:   
1. अपीलाथ/g7278 /Appellant  4. आयकरआयु/g7334 /CIT 
2. /g7079/g7004यथ/g7278/Respondent          5. िवभागीय/g7079ितिनिध /DR  
3. आयकरआयु/g7334  (अपील )/CIT(A)  6. गाड/g6981फाईल /GF