आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण,  ‘डी’ ᭠यायपीठ, चे᳖ई 
       IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
       ‘D’ BENCH, CHENNAI 
         ᮰ी वी दुगाᭅ राव, ᭠याियक सद᭭य  एवं  ᮰ी  जी. मंजुनाथ, लेखा सद᭭य के समᭃ 
       BEFORE SHRI V. DURGA RAO, HON’BLE JUDICIAL MEMBER AND 
      SHRI G. MANJUNATHA, HON’BLE ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
 
आयकर अपील सं./IT(TP)A No.: 38/Chny/2019  
िनधाᭅरण वषᭅ / Assessment Year: 2013-14 
 
 
Renault Nissan Automotive 
India Private Limited, 
Plot No. 1, SIPCOT Industrial 
Park, Mattur Post, 
Oragadam, Sriperumbudur, 
Kanchipuram District,  
Tamil nadu – 602 105. 
[PAN: AADCR-7965-B]  
 
  
v. The Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, 
Corporate Circle 5(1), 
Chennai.  
 
(अपीलाथᱮ/Appellant)                             (ᮧ᭜यथᱮ/Respondent) 
 
 
अपीलाथᱮ  कᳱ  ओर से/Appellant by     :  Shri. Ajit Tolani, Advocate,  
        Shri. Darpan Dirpalani, Advocate     
        & Shri. Shaily Agarwal, CA   
ᮧ᭜यथᱮ कᳱ ओर से/Respondent by      :  Shri. S. Palani Kumar, CIT    
 
           सुनवाई कᳱ तारीख/Date of Hearing              :   14.12 .2022 
घोषणा कᳱ तारीख/Date of Pronouncement   :  31.01.2023 
                                         
आदेश /O R D E R  
 
PER G. MANJUNATHA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER:  
 
 
This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the 
final assessment order passed by the Assessing Officer u/s. 
143(3) r.w.s. 92CA r.w.s. 144C(1) of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), dated 28.02.2019:-2-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
in pursuant to DRP directions issued u/s. 144C(5) of the Act 
dated 10.01.2019 and pertains to assessment year 2013-14. 
 
 2. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal: 
“GROUNDS OF APPEAL (Annexure to Form 36)  
The grounds of appeal listed below are independent and 
without prejudice to each other.  
1.  GENERAL GROUND  
1.1.  The lower authorities have, in the facts and 
circumstances of the case, erred in passing orders with 
unwarranted adjustments to the reported income of the 
Appellant by misapplying the provisions of the Act, by adopting 
faulty assessment procedures to finalize the adjustment, such 
as, but not limited to, rejection of (a) transfer pricing study, 
(b) analysis of the functions carried out by the Appellant and 
(c) arm's length profit arrived at by Appellant and by not 
granting appropriate economic adjustments.  
2.  TRANSFER PRICING ADJUSTMENT  
2.1.  The lower authorities erred in the facts and 
circumstances of the case and in law, in making an upward 
adjustment to the Appellant's international transactions.  
2.2.  Approach for benchmarking the international  
transactions:  
2.2.1. Without prejudice to the above grounds, the lower 
authorities had erred in the facts and circumstances of the 
case and in law, in rejecting the 'overseas tested party' 
approach used to benchmark the international transactions in 
the Transfer Pricing study maintained by the Appellant and not 
appreciating that a similar approach for benchmarking the 
imports was accepted in a previous year by the TPO.  
2.2.2. The lower authorities erred in observing that appellant 
has not placed any document to show that overseas tested 
party perform the least complex functions.  
2.3. Characterization of the entity  
2.3.1. The lower authorities erred in the facts and 
circumstances of the case and in law, in disregarding the:-3-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
functional profile of the Appellant and by arbitrarily re-
characterizing the Appellant as a contract manufacturer.  
2.4.  Methodology used for computing arm's length profit  
2.4.1. The lower authorities erred in facts and circumstance of 
case and in law, by incorrectly applying the transfer pricing 
methods, as required under Section 92C of the Act, while 
determining the arm's length price ('ALP') of the transactions. 
The lower authorities erred in not identifying any uncontrolled 
transaction for the determination of ALP and by merely 
adopting the TP policy in addition to imputing an arbitrary 
return on capital employed to determine the ALP.  
2.4.2. Without prejudice to the argument on the above, the Ld. 
TPO/ AO erred in the facts and circumstances of the case and 
in law, by not following the directions of Ld. DRP lo compute 
the return based on average capital employed instead of year-
end capital employed.  
2.4.3.  The lower authorities erred in facts and circumstances 
of the case and in law, in restricting the credit of the 
Investment Promotion Subsidy ('IPS') incentive to the extent of 
risk free return on capital employed, without appreciating the 
fact that IPS incentive is a subsidy in relation to regular 
business operations of the Appellant.  
2.4.4.  The lower authorities erred in facts and circumstances 
of the case and in law, in proposing an adjustment at the 
entity level, instead of restricting the adjustment to the value 
of international transactions, without appreciating that the 
international transactions account for only 48 percent of the 
total costs.  
2.5.  Computation of net margins of the Appellant  
2.5.1. The lower authorities had erred in the facts and 
circumstances of the case and in law, in treating the IPS 
incentive as a non-operating item and excluding the same in 
computing the net operating margins of the Appellant without 
appreciating the nature of IPS incentive.  
2.5.2. Without prejudice to other grounds, the lower 
authorities had erred in the facts and circumstances of the 
case and in law by considering IPS incentive as non-operating 
in nature for computation of the net margin of the Appellant, 
however, the IPS incentive has been offered to tax in the 
return of income.  
2.6.  Economic adjustment;:-4-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
2.6.1.  The lower authorities erred in facts and circumstances 
of the case and in law, by not providing appropriate economic 
adjustments for differences on account of forex loss, capacity 
utilization, customs duty and working capital in computing the 
arm's length price and proposing a TP adjustment.  
 
2.7.  Other grounds:  
2. 7.1. Without prejudice to the above grounds, the lower 
authorities erred in the facts and circumstances of the case 
and in law, in rejecting the 'One economic unit' approach 
adopted by the Appellant for determining the ALP of its 
international transactions, without appreciating its business 
model and other economic aspects of its business.  
2.7.2. Without prejudice to the above grounds, the lower 
authorities erred in the facts and circumstances of the case 
and in law, in rejecting the Indian benchmarking analysis 
(using Indian comparables) submitted by the Appellant as part 
of the transfer pricing assessment proceedings.  
DEDUCTIBILITY OF PROVISION FOR PROVIDENT FUND 
DEMAND RAISED BY THE AUTHORITIES  
3.1.  The lower authorities erred in facts and circumstances of 
the case and in law by not allowing the deduction claimed by 
the appellant for provision created with respect to the demand 
raised by the provident fund authorities.  
3.2.  The lower authorities erred in not allowing deduction 
under section 37 of the Act for the provision created with 
respect to the demand raised by the provident fund authorities 
by stating that the said provision is contingent in nature.  
3.3.  The lower authorities erred in facts by not appreciating 
the fact that the provision is not contingent in nature as it has 
been quantified vide the order issued by the provident fund 
authorities and accordingly, provision has been created in the 
books of the appellant including interest.  
3.4. Further, the lower authorities failed to appreciate the 
applicability of the principles upheld by courts in the 
precedents relied on by the Appellant.  
The Appellant prays that directions be given to grant all such 
relief arising from the grounds of appeal mentioned supra and 
all consequential relief thereto.:-5-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
The Appellant craves leave to add to and/or to alter, amend, 
rescind, modify the grounds herein above or produce further 
documents before or at the time of hearing of this Appeal.”  
 
3. The assessee had also filed a petition for admission of 
additional grounds on 12.12.2022 and taken certain legal 
grounds challenging final assessment order passed by the 
Assessing Officer contrary to directions issued by the DRP in 
violation to provisions of section 144C(13) of the Act.  The 
relevant additional grounds of appeal filed by the assessee are 
as under: 
ADDITIONAL GROUNDS OF APPEAL  
4. FINAL ASSESSMENT ORDER NOT IN CONFORMITY WITH THE 
DRP DIRECTIONS AND LIABLE TO BE QUASHED  
4.1 The final assessment order passed by the Learned 
Assessing Officer ("Ld. AO") is not in conformity with the 
provisions of section 144C(13) of the Act and hence bad in law, 
liable to be quashed.  
4.2  The Ld. AO has grievously erred in law by passing the 
final assessment order not in accordance with the directions 
issued by the Hon'ble Dispute Resolution Panel ("Hon'ble DRP") 
and thereby grossly violating the express mandatory provisions 
as laid down in section 144C(13) of the Act, and making the 
final assessment order invalid and void-ab-initio.  
4.3  The Ld. AO ought to have passed the final assessment 
order in conformity with the directions issued by the Hon'ble 
DRP. However, the Ld. AO has just merely incorporated the 
transfer pricing ("TP") adjustment as-is from the draft 
assessment order without considering any of the directions 
issued by the Hon'ble DRP, which have a mandatory binding on 
the Ld. AO by virtue of the express provisions stipulated in 
section 144C(5) and 144C(13) of the Act.  
ANY RECTIFICATION TO AN INVALID ORDER IS ALSO INVALID, 
BARRED BY LIMITATION OF TIME AND LIABLE TO BE QUASHED  
5.1  The Ld. AO erred in law by passing a rectification order 
under section 154 of the Act in respect of an already void-ab-
initio final assessment order without appreciating that the:-6-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
resultant order would also be rendered void and hence would 
be liable to be quashed.  
5.2  The Ld. AO has passed the rectified order under section 
154 of the Act on 4 April 2019 which is in fact beyond the due 
date for completion of assessment as per section 144C(13) of 
the Act and hence is liable to be quashed on the grounds of 
period of limitation as well.  
6.  FINAL ASSESSMENT ORDER PASSED UNDER INCORRECT 
SECTION AND LIABLE TO BE QUASHED  
6.1  The final assessment order passed under section 143(3) 
read with section 92CA read with 144C(1) by the Ld. AO is 
void-ab-initio and liable to be quashed.  
6.2  The Ld. AO ought to have passed the final assessment 
order under section 143(3) read with section 92CA read with 
section 144C(13) of the Act. However the ld. AO has grossly 
erred in passing under section 143(3) read with section 92CA 
read with section 144C(1) of the Act which provides for passing 
of draft assessment order instead of section 144C(13) of the 
Act and therefore the final assessment order dated 28 
February 2019 is invalid and liable to be quashed.  
7.  ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT TO ELIMINATE DIFFERENCES 
IN RISK PROFILE  
7 .1  The Learned Transfer Pricing Officer ("Ld. TPO") erred in 
facts and circumstances of the case and in law, by providing 
appropriate economic adjustment to eliminate the differences 
on account of risk profile of the Appellant while computing the 
arm's length price and proposing a transfer pricing adjustment.  
7.2  Without prejudice to any of the other grounds, the ld. 
TPO while treating the Appellant as a contract manufacturer 
bearing nil risks ought to have granted risk adjustment to 
eliminate the differences on account of risk profile of the 
Appellant. However, the Ld. TPO has computed the arm's 
length price and imputed a transfer pricing adjustment without 
factoring the said economic adj ustment (i.e., risk adjustment).  
The Appellant prays to your Honor's to permit raising the 
above additional grounds of appeal and claim as part of the 
appeal filed for AY 2013-14.  
The Appellant craves leave to add, alter, vary, omit, amend or 
delete one or more of the above grounds of appeal at any time 
before, or at the time of. hearing of the appeal, so as to enable 
the Hon'ble ITAT to decide this appeal according to law.”:-7-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
4. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee, submitted that the 
additional grounds raised by the assessee challenging validity 
of assessment order passed by the AO goes to root of the 
matter, which can be raised any time including proceedings 
before the Tribunal and thus, prayed for admission of 
additional grounds. 
 
5. The Ld. DR, on the other hand strongly opposing 
additional grounds filed by the assessee submitted that 
petition filed by the assessee should not be admitted at this 
stage, because the assessee could not able to demonstrate 
with evidence that facts with regard to legal grounds raised in 
petition are already on records and further, there is no 
necessity of getting fresh facts to resolve the issue.  Therefore, 
the petition filed by the assessee for admission of additional 
grounds should be rejected. 
 
6. We have heard both the parties and considered relevant 
contents of petition filed by the assessee for admission of 
additional grounds and we find that grounds taken by the 
assessee challenging the validity of final assessment order 
passed by the AO contrary to provisions of section 144C(13) of:-8-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
the Act, and consequent rectification order passed u/s. 154 of 
the Act, quo limitation applicable for passing final assessment 
order and also application of wrong provisions for final 
assessment order are purely a legal issue which can be taken 
at any time of proceedings including the proceedings before 
the Tribunal and thus, by following the decision of Hon’ble 
Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Kanpur Coal Syndicate 
(1964) 53 ITR 225 (SC) and also the decision of Hon’ble 
Madras High Court in the case of Ramco Cements Ltd (2015) 
373 ITR 146 (Mad), we admit additional grounds filed by the 
assessee challenging validity of assessment order passed by 
the AO and other issues because said grounds are purely a 
legal grounds which can be admitted at any time of 
proceedings including proceedings before the Tribunal.  Thus, 
we admit petition filed by the assessee for admission of 
additional grounds. 
 
7. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee, referring to ground no. 
4.1 to 4.3 of additional grounds submitted that the final 
assessment order passed by the AO is not in conformity with 
DRP and liable to be quashed.  He further referring to ground 
no. 5.1 to 5.2 submitted that although, the AO has rectified:-9-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
the said mistake in order passed u/s. 154 of the Act, once final 
assessment order is void-ab-initio, then resultant rectification 
order would also be rendered as void and hence would be 
liable to be quashed.  The Ld. Counsel for the assessee, 
referring to ground no. 6.1 to 6.2 of the additional grounds 
submitted that the AO has passed final assessment order u/s. 
143(3) r.w.s. 92CA r.w.s. 144C(1) of the Act, contrary to 
provisions of section 144C(13) of the Act.  Therefore, said 
order becomes void-ab-initio and liable to be quashed.  
 
8. The Ld. DR, on the other hand supporting order of the 
AO, submitted that although while passing final assessment 
order, the AO has violated directions given by the DRP in 
allowing relief to the extent of adjustment restricted to 
international transactions, but subsequently, an application 
moved by the assessee has passed an order u/s. 154 of the 
Act and rectified the final assessment order in conformity with 
directions given by the DRP and thus, there is no merit in 
additional ground raised by the assessee. He further, 
submitted that although the AO has referred section 144C(1) 
of the Act, in the final assessment order, but said reference is 
a technical error which does not vitiate the assessment order.:-10-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
Therefore, he submitted that the ground raised by the 
assessee may be rejected.  
 
9. We have heard both the parties, perused materials 
available on record and gone through orders of the authorities 
below.  As regards final assessment order not in conformity 
with the DRP directions as per the provisions of section 
144C(13) of the Act, we find that although the AO has initially 
violated the DRP directions, in respect of relief allowed towards 
restriction of TP adjustment to international transactions,  but 
on an application by the assessee, the AO has passed order 
u/s. 154 of the Act and rectified the final assessment order in 
conformity with directions given by the DRP and in our 
considered view, said order is in conformity with provisions of 
section 144C(13) of the Act.  Therefore, we are of the 
considered opinion that there is no merit in the grounds taken 
by the assessee challenging the validity of final assessment 
order and consequent rectification order in light of limitation 
provided for passing final assessment order.   In so far as, the 
second argument of the assessee in light of reference of 
provisions of section 144C(1) of the Act, instead of provisions 
of section 144C(13) of the Act, we find that said lapse is only a:-11-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
technical error, which does not vitiate the whole assessment 
proceedings.  Further, the AO has taken a broader  view and 
referred to provisions of section 92CA of the Act, which speaks 
about transfer pricing adjustment and also taken a reference 
to DRP directions and thus, we are of the considered view that 
mere mentioning of different section in the final assessment 
order does not vitiate any assessment proceedings.  Therefore, 
we reject the ground taken by the assessee. 
 
10. The next issue that came up for our consideration from 
various grounds of assessee’s appeal is upward adjustment to 
international transactions of the assessee with its Associate 
Enterprises (AE).  The Ld. Counsel for the assessee, submitted 
that the assessee has benchmarked international transactions 
with its AE by adopting one economic unit approach method 
and has adopted TNMM as most appropriate method with 
OP/OC as PLI.  The TPO has rejected TP study conducted by 
the assessee by adopting TNMM as most appropriate method 
and has chosen ‘other method’ and has suggested upward 
adjustment on value added cost @ 3% and also 8.19% return 
on capital employed without giving any reasons as to how the 
method selected by the assessee suffered from infirmity.:-12-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
Further, the TPO himself has accepted TNMM as most 
appropriate method in subsequent assessment years.  
Therefore, there is no reason for the TPO to adopt ‘any other 
method’ in the impugned assessment year.  Thus, the ld. 
Counsel for the assessee, submitted that the matter may be 
set aside to the file of the TPO to re-examine the method 
adopted by the assessee to benchmark international 
transactions with its AE. 
 
11. The Ld. DR, on the other hand submitted that the TPO 
has given various reasons to reject TP study conducted by the 
assessee by adopting TNMM as most appropriate method and 
as per the TPO, the assessee has been classified as a contract 
manufacturer and in this segment, there are no comparables 
to examine the transactions of the assessee.  Therefore, as 
prescribed u/r. 10AB of IT Rules, 1962, the AO has adopted 
‘any other method’ by taking into account the price which has 
been charged or paid, which would have been charged or paid, 
for the same and similar uncontrolled transaction, with or 
between non-associated enterprises, under similar 
circumstances, considering all the relevant facts.  Further, the 
TPO had also stated why he has adopted 3% on value added:-13-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
cost and 8.19% of return on capital employed.  Therefore, 
there is no reason to set aside the appeal to the file of the TPO 
to re-examine transactions of the assessee with its AE. 
 
12.  We have heard both the parties, perused materials 
available on record and gone through orders of the authorities 
below.  From the impugned assessment year, there is a 
significant change in functions carried out by the assessee and 
as noted by the TPO, the assessee is manufacturing cars for 
Nissan Motors India Ltd and Renault India Private Ltd.  Based 
on the functions carried out by the assessee, the TPO has 
classified assessee as a contract manufacturer.  According to 
the TPO, the assessee do not assume any significant risk which 
a professional manufacturer of cars assume.  Therefore, he 
was of the opinion that the assessee cannot be considered as 
entrepreneur engaged in the business of manufacturing of 
cars.  We find that although the TPO has classified assessee as 
a contract manufacturer, for the purpose of benchmarking its 
international transactions, he has not given any valid reason to 
come to such a conclusion that the assessee is not assuming 
any significant risk that of a manufacturer of car is assuming.  
In our considered view, when the assessee is involved in:-14-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
manufacturing of car, the risk involved and functions 
performed by the assessee may be or equivalent to functions 
performed and risk assumed by other manufacturer.  However, 
in case of contract manufacturer, they assume limited risk 
going by the industrial standard like, carrying out 
manufacturing operations and employing required labour, 
other technology and material required for manufacturing 
process will be given by the principal.  In this case, the AO had 
not given any findings as to who is providing necessary 
material for manufacturing of cars and required technology.  
Therefore, in our considered view, the TPO has completely 
erred in classifying assessee as a contract manufacturer for 
the purpose of benchmarking its international transactions 
with PE. 
 
 
13. Having said so, let us come back to the method followed 
by the assessee and the TPO.  The assessee has followed 
TNMM as most appropriate method with OP/OC as PLI.  The 
TPO has rejected TNMM as most appropriate method and has 
adopted ‘any other method’ as prescribed u/r. 10AB of the IT 
Rules, 1962 and has computed 3% on VAC and a routine 
return of 8.19% on capital employed to be a deemed arm’s:-15-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
length price for the functional profile of the assessee.  The TPO 
while adopting 3% on value added cost has taken cost plus 
margin charged in similar case.  However, when it comes to 
return on capital employed, the TPO has not given any reason 
as to how 8.19% of return on capital employed is reasonable 
for the given facts and circumstances of the case.  Further, 
there is no clarity on how the TPO has arrived at capital 
employed in the business.  Therefore, we are of the considered 
view that the method followed by the TPO in terms of Rule 
10AB of IT Rules, 1962 is not in accordance with law, having 
regard to facts and circumstances of this case and thus, we 
reject ‘any other method’ adopted by the TPO. 
 
14. In so far as TNMM method selected by the assessee, the 
assessee has consistently adopted TNMM as most appropriate 
method with OP/OC as profit level indicator.  In subsequent 
assessment years, the TPO himself had accepted TNMM as 
most appropriate method without there being any significant 
change in facts, when compared to impugned assessment 
year.  Since, we have already stated in earlier part of this 
order that the TPO has not given valid reasons for rejecting 
TNMM method and adopting any other method, we are of the:-16-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
considered view that, TNMM is most appropriate method in the 
given facts and circumstances of this case and thus, we direct 
the TPO to benchmark international transactions with its AE by 
adopting TNMM as most appropriate method.  The TPO is free 
to examine basis followed by the assessee, including 
comparable selected for benchmarking its transactions.  The 
TPO is also free to examine operating margin computed by the 
assessee.  Needless to say, the assessee is also free to raise 
all objections in so far as computation of operating margin by 
inclusion of certain items of income and expenditure. 
 
15. As regards other grounds taken by the assessee including 
challenging rejection of one economic unit approach, during 
the course of hearing, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee fairly 
agreed that the assessee does not want to press the grounds 
challenging rejection of one economic unit approach and thus, 
the ground raised by the assessee has been dismissed as not 
pressed. 
 
16. The next issue that came up for our consideration from 
ground no. 3 of assessee’s appeal is disallowance of other 
provisions u/s. 37 of the Act.  The assessee has debited Rs. 10:-17-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
crores on account of other provisions.  The assessee was 
called upon to explain the nature of provisions created and in 
response, the assessee submitted that during the financial 
year 2012-13 relevant to assessment year 2013-14, the 
company has made a provision for provident fund payment 
raised by the PF authorities towards differential amount.  The 
AO rejected arguments of the assessee and disallowed 
provisions created for differential provident fund payable on 
the ground that the said provision is only contingent liability 
which is not crystallized in the relevant assessment year. 
 
17.     We have heard both the parties, perused materials 
available on record and gone through orders of the authorities 
below.  Although, the assessee has submitted details with 
respect to provisions under the head ‘other provisions’ and 
explained that it is towards differential amount of provident 
fund payable to PF authorities, but no details has been given 
whether the assessee has accepted the payment or preferred 
an appeal before the appellant authorities.  The AO had also 
made disallowance towards provisions on the ground that said 
provision is only a contingent liability without giving any 
details as to how said liability is contingent in nature.:-18-:                    IT(TP)A. No: 38/Chny/2019  
 
Therefore, we are of the considered view that the issue needs 
to go back to the file of the Assessing Officer for further 
verification and thus, we set aside the issue to the file of the 
AO and direct the AO to re-examine the issue and decide in 
accordance with law. 
 
18. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is treated as 
partly allowed for statistical purposes.        
Order pronounced in the court on  31st January, 2023 at Chennai. 
 
Sd/- 
(वी दुगाᭅ राव) 
(V. DURGA RAO) 
᭠याियकसद᭭य/Judicial Member  Sd/- 
(जी. मंजुनाथ) 
(G. MANJUNATHA ) 
लेखासद᭭य/Accountant Member  
चे᳖ई/Chennai, 
ᳰदनांक/Dated: 31st January, 2023 
JPV 
आदेश कᳱ ᮧितिलिप अᮕेिषत/Copy to:    
1. अपीलाथᱮ/Appellant     2. ᮧ᭜यथᱮ/Respondent             3. आयकर आयुᲦ (अपील)/CIT(A)   
4.   आयकर आयुᲦ/CIT      5. िवभागीय ᮧितिनिध/DR          6. गाडᭅ फाईल/GF