TELANGANA STATE AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE RULING  
CT Complex, M.J Road, Nampally, Hyderabad -500001.  
(Constituted under Section 96(1) of TGST Act, 2017)  
  Present:          
       Sri S.V.  Kasi Visweswara Rao , Additional Commissioner (State Tax)  
Sri Sahil Inamdar, Additional  Commissioner (Central Tax)  
 
A.R.Com/22 /2022                                                                              Date: 12.04.202 3 
 
TSAAR Order No. 04/2023  
 
[ORDER UNDER SECTION 98(4) OF THE CENTRAL GOODS AND SERVICES TAX ACT, 2017 
AND UNDER SECTION 98(4) OF THE TEALANGANA GOODS AND SERVICES TAX ACT, 
2017.]  
******  
1. M/s. Sanghi Enterprises , Survey No.15, 16, Mysireddypally, Medchal, Medchal Malkajgiri, 
Telangana - 501401 (36ADLFS2549G1ZS ) has filed an application in FORM GST ARA-01 under 
Section 97(1) of TGST Act, 2017 read with Rule 104 of CGST/TGST Rules.  
 
2. At the outset, it is made clear that the provisions of both the CGST Act and the TGST Act are the 
same except for certain provisions. Therefore, unless a mention is specif ically made to any 
dissimilar provisions, a reference to the CGST Act would also mean a reference to the same 
provision under the TGST Act. Further, for the purposes of this Advance Ruling, the expression 
‘GST Act’ would be a common reference to both CGST Act and TGST Act.  
 
3. It is observed that the queries raised by the applicant fall within the ambit of Section 97 of the 
GST ACT. The Applicant enclosed copies of challans as proof of payment of Rs. 5,000/ - under 
SGST and Rs. 5,000/ - under CGST towards the fe e for Advance Ruling. The Applicant has 
declared that the questions raised in the application have neither been decided nor are pending 
before any authority under any provisions of the CGST/TGST Act’2017. The application is, 
therefore, admitted  after exami ning it and the records called for and after hearing the applicant 
as per section 98(2) of TGST Act’2017.  
 
4. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE:  
 
4.1 The applicant M/s. Sanghi  Enterprises has claimed that they are constructing shed on a leased 
land and that such property being constructed is a pre -fabricated shed system. They made the 
following submissions in their application:  
 
Submission -1: It is fixed by anchor bolts to a lo w RCC platform embedded to the ground, and it 
is the only civil structure.  
 
Submission -2:The rest of the structure, like columns, beams, rafters, wall sheets, roof shed etc. 
are all joined with one another by nuts and bolts, and can be easily dismantled an d restructured 
at another location.  
 
Submission -3:The low -rising RCC platform is, of course, permanently embedded to the ground. 
However Shed system built thereon, can be dismantled, and thus reduces repeated capital 
expenses in the event of a shift of loc ation.Submission -4: Shed is nothing more than an assembly of the System, which is pre -fabricated 
and pre - engineered components, fixed together in a modular form with nuts and bolts and 
without welding so that it can be easily unfixed.  
 
Submission -5: The  utility of the RCC platform on which the System is being fixed is limited to 
allowing the Shed to be set up and no further. It is the System that is beneficially enjoyed, not 
the RCC structure.  
 
They further submitted that if the nature of annexation is s uch that an item so annexed can be 
removed without any damage and future enjoyment of that item in a similar capacity is not 
affected, such an item will not be considered to be immovable property. They relied on the 
Hon’ble Apex court's judgments in Solid & Correct Engineering Works [(2010) 252 ELT 481 (SC)] 
and Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd [97 ELT 3 (SC)].  
 
5. QUESTIONS RAISED:  
1. Whether Input Tax Credit is allowed for construction of shed using pre -fabricated 
technology?  
 
6. PERSONAL HEARING:  
The Authorized representatives of the unit namely Subodh Sanghi, Managing partner and Ankur, 
CA attended the personal hearing held on 15.12.2022. The authorized representatives reiterated 
their averments in the application submitted and averred as follows:  
 
1. That they have taken land on lease and the lessor has constructed a basement on which the 
applicant intends to construct a shed using prefabricated technology.  
 
2. That the prefabricated structure is erected on the basement by using nuts & bolts and that it  
can be disassembled as and when required.  
  
3. That this structure is therefore is not a permanent structure and it is a movable property and 
therefore the AAR may issue appropriate ruling regarding such movable property.  
 
Opinion  expressed  by Sri S.V. Kasi Visweswara Rao , Additional Commissioner 
(State Tax), on the issues raised by  the applicant.  
 
 
7. DISCUSSION & FINDINGS:  
 
It is to inform that under clause (d) of sub -section (5) of Section (17) of the CGST Act, goods or 
services or both received by a taxable person for an immovable property or shall not be 
amenable for claiming input tax credit. Therefore the applicant desir es to obtain a clarification 
whether the goods shed erected by him using prefabricated structures by way of nuts & bolts is 
an immovable property or a movable property. The applicant relies on the Hon’ble Apex Court’s 
orders in the case of Solid & Correct Engineering Works [(2010) 252 ELT 481 (SC)] and Sirpur 
Paper Mills Ltd [97 ELT 3 (SC)].  
 
As seen from the facts of the case the appellant erects a warehouse using prefabricates 
structures. The overlying structure along with the land on which it erected con stitutes the 
warehouse. The warehouse is meant for storage activity and therefore is associated with the 
beneficial enjoyment of the land on which it is constructed.  
 
It is seen from the Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd case that the facts of the case pertains to a ssembling 
of a machine from its components and attaching the same to the earth for the operational 
efficiency of that machine. Therefore the attachment made was not for the beneficial enjoyment 
of the land to which it was attached. Hence, the law laid down  by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India in this case is not applicable to the facts before this Authority for Advance Ruling.It is seen from the Solid & Correct Engineering Works case that the Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India has observed that “a hut is als o a immovable property even if it is sold with the option to 
pull it down. A mortgage of the super structure of a house though expressed to be exclusive of 
the land beneath, create an interest in immovable property, for it is permanently attached to the 
ground on which it is build”. Thus the Court was of the opinion that the “attachment in order to 
qualify the expression attached to earth, must be for the beneficial enjoyment of that to which it 
is attached. Doors, windows and shutters of a house are attach ed to the house, which is 
imbedded in the earth. They are attached to the house which is imbedded in the earth for the 
beneficial enjoyment of the house. They have no separate existence from the house.”  
 
Thus the Hon’ble Supreme Court considered even a tem porary shelter such as a hut as an 
immovable property as long as it is for the beneficial enjoyment of the land to which it is 
attached. Applying this principle the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India held the doors, shutters 
which are generally fixed to the do or frame in the wall with screws & nails to be immovable 
property.  
 
Clearly the warehouse is erected to make use of the space created over the land on which it is 
built hence, in view of the law declared by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India the ware house s 
erected by the applicant using prefabricated structures constitutes immovable property and are 
not eligible for input tax credit in terms of Section 17(5)(d) of the CGST Act, 2017.  
 
8. In view of the above discussion, the questions raised by the applicant are clarified as 
below:  
 
Questions   
Ruling  
1. Whether Input Tax Credit is allowed for 
construction of shed using pre -fabricated 
technology?  No, input tax credit is not allowed for 
construction of shed using prefabricated 
technology.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Opinion  expressed  by Sri Sahil Inamdar, Additional Commissioner,  Central  
Tax on the issues  raised  by the applicant  are as given  below.  
 
9. DISCUSSION & FINDINGS:  
 
9.1.1 Section 16(1) of Central Goods and Services Tax Act/ Telangana  Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017 ("CGST/TGST Act’2017") entitles a registered person to take credit of input tax 
charged on any supply of goods or services or both which are used or intended to be used in the 
course or furtherance of business.  
 
9.1.2 However, as per Section 17(5) of the CGST/TGST Act’2017 a restriction is imposed with 
respect to input tax credit (hereinafter referred to as "ITC") on procurement of goods and 
services or both received by the taxable person for construction of an immovable p roperty.  
 
The term 'construction' in this section is limited to supplies to the extent capitalized to an 
immovable property.  
 
9.1.3 Therefore the applicant desired to obtain a clarification whether the prefabricated shed 
(hereinafter referred to as "PFS" ) erected by him using prefabricated structures by way of nuts 
& bolts is an immovable property or a movable property. The applicant relies on the Hon’ble 
Apex Court’s orders in the case of Solid & Correct Engineering Works [(2010) 252 ELT 481 (SC)] 
and Sir pur Paper Mills Ltd [97 ELT 3 (SC)].9.1.4 The applicant is engaged in construction of prefabricated shed (PFS). They procure 
goods and services from various contractors for fitting out the prefabricated shed (PFS).  They 
discharge the GST liability with regard to such procurement. The applicant also submitted that 
the ‘PFS’ can be detached and reused. He stated that PFS are not considered to be permanent 
civil affects. The ‘PFS’ are pre -fabricated structures that are erected at the site by way of joining 
to bolts. The foundation is made of concrete and it rests on the earth, and is the only part in 
‘PFS’ which is embedded in the earth, for permanent beneficial enjoyment. The applicant seeks 
ruling with regard to the availability of Input Tax Credit against  the procurements pertaining to 
construction of ‘PFS’.  
 
9.2   It is important to discuss some of the relevant provisions contained in the CGST/ 
TGSTAct, 2017 to clarify the contentions of the applicant.  
 
 Section 2(52) defines goods as "every kind of movable property other than money and 
securities but includes actionable claim, growing crops, grass and things attached to or forming 
part of the land which are agreed to be severed before supply or under a c ontract of supply".  
 
9.3  Section 2(119) of the CGST/TGST Act, 2017 (119) states ― “works contract” means a 
contract for building, construction, fabrication, completion, erection, installation, fitting out, 
improvement, modification, repair, maintenance, renovation, alteration or commissioning of any 
immovable property wherein transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other 
form) is involved in the execution of such contract; .  
 
9.4  Section 17 of the GST Act deals with Apportionment of cr edit and blocked credits. 
Relevant extract of Section 17(5)(d)  and 17(5)(c) is produced below:  
Section 17(5) of  CGST/TGST Act’2017   states:  
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1) of section 16 and sub - 
section (1) of section 18, input tax credit shall not be available in respect of the 
following, namely: — 
(c) works contract services when supplied for construction of an immovable 
property (other than plant and machinery) except where it is an input service 
for further supply of works contrac t service;  
 
(d) goods or services or both received by a taxable person for construction of 
an immovable property (other than plant or machinery) on his own account 
including when such goods or services or both are used in the course or 
furtherance of busin ess.  
 
Explanation .––For the purposes of clauses ( c) and ( d), the expression 
―construction‖ includes re -construction, renovation, additions or alterations or 
repairs, to the extent of capitalisation, to the said immovable property;  
 
9.5  Now, as per the de finition of goods in the Section 2(52) of the CGST/ TGSTAct, 2017 
mentioned supra, some movable property is excluded from the category of goods whereas at 
the same time, some immovable properties are treated as goods. But the terms “movable 
property” and “ immovable property” have not been defined under the GST Act.  
 
9.6  In laymen terms, any goods that can moved is a movable property and which cannot 
be moved is immovable property. But the General Clauses Act 1897 and the Transfer of Property 
Act defines bo th these terms.  
 
Section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act’1897 says:  
 
[3. Definitions. —In this Act, and in all Central Acts and Regulations made after 
the commencement of this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the 
subject or context, —(26) " immovable property" shall include land, benefits to arise out of land, and 
things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached to 
the earth".  
 
(36) “movable property” shall mean property of every description, except 
immovable propert y;] 
 
As per this to qualify as “immovable property” those things should be attached to the earth, or 
permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth.  
 
Whereas, Section 3(36) defines movable property as "property of every description, except 
immovabl e property.  
 
9.7  As per this definition, any property which does not qualify to be immovable property, is 
a movable property. This definition of immovable property under the General Clauses Act is 
affirmative in nature.  
 
9.8   Definition of "attached to the earth" is not given in General Clauses Act 1897 
but provided by Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882.  
 
Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 is produced below:  
 
Interpretation -clause. —In this Act, unless there is something repugna nt in the subject 
or context, —  
 
“immoveable property” does not include standing timber, growing crops or grass; 
“instrument”, means a non -testamentary instrument;  
 
 [“attested”, in relation to an instrument, means and shall be deemed always to have 
meant attested by two or more witnesses each of whom has seen the executant sign or 
affix his mark to the instrument, or has seen some other person sign the instrument in 
the presence and by the direction of the executant, or has received from the executant 
a personal acknowledgement of his signature or mark, or of the signature of such other 
person, and each of whom has signed the instrument in the presence of the executant; 
but it shall not be necessary that more than one of such witnesses shall have been 
prese nt at the same time, and no particular form of attestation shall be necessary;]  
 
“registered” means registered in [[any part of the territories] to which this Act extends] 
under the laws for the time being in force regulating the registration of documents ;  
 
“attached to the earth” means —  
 
(a) rooted in the earth, as in the case of trees and shrubs;  
 
(b) imbedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings; or  
 
 (c) attached  to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to 
which it is attached;  
 
Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 says that for a thing to qualify as "attached to 
the earth" it should fulfil any of the below conditions: -  
 
(a) rooted in the earth, as in the case of trees and shrubs;  
 
(b) imbedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings; or  
 
 (c) attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it 
is attached.9.9  Section 3  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 gives clarity on the expression 
"attached to the earth" which in turn gives clarity on the definition of  "immovable property" as 
defined  under Section 3(26)  of the General Clauses Act . It clarifies that anything attached to 
what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment,  but does not include standing 
timber, growing crops or grass,  comes under the category of "attached to the earth" which 
makes it  to come under definition of  `immovable property' . Section 3(26)  of the General Clauses 
Act, 1897, provides  “things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached 
to the earth” as  an exhaustive definition of the "immovable property".  
 
 
9.10   As per the definition of immovable property contained in the General Clauses Act and 
the Transfer of Property Act, it is clear that things attached to the earth or permanently fastened 
to anyt hing attached to the earth is immovable property. Anything imbedded in the earth or 
attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is 
attached, qualifies to be attached to the earth.  
 
9.11  As far as the content ion of the applicant regarding procurement of ‘PFS’ and 
subsequent fitting to be in the course of business is concerned, it is admitted that the same is in 
course of business but the question is whether the applicant is eligible to ITC in light of the 
provisions contained in section 17(5)(d) of the CGST/ TGST Act. The applicant shall be eligible to 
ITC only if it is so established that the ‘PFS’, which is constructed by joining pre fabricated 
structures, qualifies to be a movable property.  
 
9.12  The Hon’bl e Supreme Court in respect of Triveni Engineering &  Industries Ltd. & Anr. 
V. Commissioner of Central Excise  2000 (120) ELT 273 (SC)   observed  that in order to determine 
whether an article is permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth, both the intention 
as well as the factum of fastening has to be ascertained from the facts and circumstances of 
each case. The following passage, in t he judgement, is apposite in this regard:  
 
"There can be no doubt that if an article is an immovable property, it cannot be 
termed as "excisable goods" for purposes of the Act. From a combined reading of 
the definition of "immovable property" in  Section 3  of the Transfer of Property 
Act, Section 3(25)  of the General Clauses Act, it is evident that in an immovable 
property there is neither mo bility nor marketability as understood in the excise law. 
Whether an article is permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth 
requires determination of both the intention as well as the factum of fastening to 
anything attached to the earth. And th is has to be ascertained from the facts and 
circumstances of each case."  
 
9.13.1  The Allahabad High Court in S/S Triveni N L Limited has observed that "permanently 
fastened to anything attached to the earth" has to be read in the context for the reason th at 
nothing can be fastened to the earth permanently so that it can never be removed. If the article 
cannot be used without fastening or attaching it to the earth and it is not removed under 
ordinary circumstances, it may be considered permanently fastened to anything attached to the 
earth.  
 
9.13.2 The applicant has submitted that the concrete foundation/RCC platform rests on earth 
and it is attached and also imbedded in the earth. ‘PFS’ is attached to the RCC platform with an 
intention to perform the cours e of business permanently beneath it.  
 
9.13.3 Even if the concrete structure is not imbedded in the earth but rests on the earth, it 
can be concluded that it is naturally attached to the earth by way of gravitational pull of the 
earth as they would not ha ve allowed the structure to be placed on earth if it is not stable and 
without stability it would not serve the purpose of allowing the person to conduct business 
beneath it.  A stable structure enables beneficial enjoyment of the land on which it is being built.  
Therefore even if the structure is merely placed on earth and would remain stable and permits 
to conduct business operations beneath it,  it shall be deemed to be attached to the earth as it isnot removed under ordinary circumstances, it may be co nsidered permanently fastened to 
anything attached to the earth.  The structure, even if it is merely placed on land, enables 
beneficial enjoyment of the land on which it is being built.   
 
9.14    Further, when any object is said to be imbedded in earth, it  does not mean that a part 
of it is to be inserted/ put deep beneath the earth by digging the earth for several meters. For 
laying any foundation especially in case of area of considerable dimension as in case of a ‘PFS’, 
the top soil has to be removed, su rface has to be levelled and some part of foundation stone 
always rests with in the earth. So the support base of the ‘PFS’ is attached to and imbedded in 
the earth.  
 
9.15   As regards the issue of the non -permanent nature of the ‘PFS’ structure is concern ed, it 
has already been discussed that the degree and nature of annexation is vital to the decision 
whether a property is a movable property or an immovable property. In the case of applicant, 
the ‘PFS’ are meant for the purpose of conducting business. The se ‘PFS’ cover considerably large 
area and caters to the need of business which in turn requires permanence and stability. So, it 
cannot be said that the ‘PFS’ constructed/ erected by way of fixing pre -engineered structures is 
non-permanent in nature.  
 
9.16  As seen from the facts of the case the appellant erects a ‘PFS’ using prefabricates 
structures. The overlying structure along with the land on which it erected constitutes the ‘PFS’. 
The ‘PFS’ is meant for business activity and therefore is associated w ith the beneficial enjoyment 
of the land on which it is constructed.  
 
 9.17.1 In the case of Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd. Vs. The Collector Of Central Excise, Hyderabad, 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its judgement dated 11/12/1997  has upheld the decision of the 
Customs, Excise and Gold Tribunal that a papermaking machine, attached to earth for 
operational efficiency, cannot be an immovable property merely because it is attached to a 
foundation embedded in the earth. The test is whet her the machine can be dismantled and sold 
in the market. As the Tribunal has found a fact that it can be sold in the market which made the  
apex court to upheld the Tribunal order by taking a decision that just because a plant and 
machinery are fixed to th e earth for better functioning, it does not automatically make them to 
become an immovable property. The test of whether the paper -making machine can be sold in 
the market has to be checked before deciding it to be an immovable property or not.   
 
 9.17.2 This judgment is based on the premise that the machine and not the foundation to 
which it is attached is the property being used and enjoyed. It is not relevant in the present 
context where the Prefabricated shed is attached to RCC platform which is imbedde d for the 
permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached. Prefabricated shed, attached to 
RCC platform embedded on earth, forms an integral part of the property.   
 
9.17.3 ‘PFS’ structure does not fulfil the test of whether the “‘PFS’ structure can be dismantled 
and sold in the market or not.” This is because ‘PFS’ structure attached to the RCC platform is 
not Saleable like papermaking machine.   
 
9.18.1 In the case of decis ion by Apex Court in respect of Commissioner Of Central Excise, Vs. 
Solid & Correct Engg. Works & Ors, in  Civil Appeal Nos.960 -966 of 2003, the Apex Court, while 
examining whether a machine, fixed with nuts and bolts to a foundation, with no intent to 
permanently attach it to the earth, is an immovable property or not, has held that such an 
attachment without necessary intent to making it permanent cannot be an immovable property. 
The emphasis is on the intention of the party. The Apex Court observes that the machine in 
question can be moved and has indeed been moved after the road construction and repair 
project, for which it was installed, is completed. However, if a machine is intended to be fixed 
permanently to a structure embedded in the earth, the mov eable character of the machine, 
according to the Supreme Court, becomes extinct.  
 
9.18.2 A mortgage of the super structure of a house though expressed to be exclusive of the 
land beneath, create an interest in immovable property, for it is permanently att ached to theground on which it is build”. Thus the Court was of the opinion that the “attachment in order to 
qualify the expression attached to earth, must be for the beneficial enjoyment of that to which it 
is attached. Doors, windows and shutters of a h ouse are attached to the house, which is 
imbedded in the earth. They are attached to the house which is imbedded in the earth for the 
beneficial enjoyment of the house. They have no separate existence from the house.”  
 
9.18.3 ‘PFS’ is attached to the RCC p latform with an intention to perform the course of 
business permanently beneath it i.e. on the RCC platform. ‘PFS’ is meant to enable beneficial 
enjoyment, by way of conducting business on the RCC platform, which makes it to conclude that 
it is attached to  the RCC platform thereby making it an immovable property as per provisions of 
Section 3  of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882  and Section 3(26) of the General Clauses 
Act’1897. If not for the purpose of beneficial enjoyment by way of conducting business on the 
RCC platform, the ‘PFS’ has no separate existence.      
 
9.19   Decision of Hon’ble Supreme Court in Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. V. CCE, U.P . 1995 
(75) ELT 17 (SC) and Mittal Engineering Works (P) Ltd. V. CCE, Meerut 1996 (88) ELT 622 (SC) 
where it was held that tube mill and welding head erected and installed in the pr emises and 
embedded to earth ceased to be goods within the meaning of Section 3  of the Act as the same 
no longer remained moveable goods that could be brought to market for being bought and sold.  
 
9.20  Clearly the ‘PFS’ is erected to make use of the space created over the land on which it 
is built hence, in view of the law declared by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India the ware 
houses erected by the applicant using prefabricated structures constitutes immovable property 
and are not eligible for input tax credit in terms of Section 17(5)(d) of the CGST Act, 2017.  
 
9.21  If the article cannot be used without fastening or attaching it to the earth and is not 
removed under ordinary circumstances, it may be considered permanently fastened to anything 
attached to the earth.  
 
9.22  Furthermore, in the context of the GST Act, i f the article attached to the earth is not 
agreed to be severed before supply or under a contract for supply, it ceases to be goods and, 
for that matter, a moveable property.  
 
9.23  In this connection, reference may be made to clause 4(v) of the Circular No. 
58/1/2002 -CX dated 15/01/2002, where it is concluded that “if items assembled or erected at 
site and attached by foundation to earth cannot be dismantled without substantial damag e to its 
components and thus cannot be reassembled, then the items would not be considered as 
moveable and will, therefore, not be excisable goods.” Clearly, the ‘PFS’ cannot be relocated by 
unfixing the pre -fabricated structures alone. The dismantling of the floor, which is the most 
important component of the ‘PFS’, is not possible without substantial damage to the foundation.   
 
9.24  The essential character of “immovable property”, as emerges from the above 
discussion and relevant to the present context is that it is attached to the earth, or permanently 
fastened to anything attached to the earth, or forming part of the land and not agreed to be 
severed before supply or under a contract of supply.   
 
9.25  Now, section 17(5)(d) bars any taxpayer to avail the benefit of Input Tax Credit in case 
where the goods or services or both received by the said person are used for the construction of 
an immovable property even if it is in the course or furtherance of business.  
 
9.26  The contention of the applicant t hat the very reason why ‘PFS’ is preferred over 
conventional building is that it offers movability doesn’t make him eligible for availing ITC as per 
Section 17(5) of the CGST/TGST Act’2017. This is because when a ‘PFS’ is assembled in a place 
the intention  is definitely not to make it a movable structure but rather to conduct the business 
permanently beneath it i.e. on the RCC platform to which it is attached. ‘PFS’ has more flexibility 
than the conventional structures in facilitating hassle -free shifting b ased on changing business 
requirements but that doesn’t make it a movable structure as the intention of establishing shed 
or ‘PFS’ is to continue business permanently on the RCC platform to which it is attached.9.27  The pre -fabricated movable components  joined to make a structure do not constitute 
as separate property of the ‘PFS’. They are building blocks applied to a civil structure attached to 
the land to construct a complete ‘PFS’. They have no separate existence from the ‘PFS’. The 
‘PFS’ cannot be c onceived without the beneficial enjoyment of the civil structure, which is an 
integral part of the property. On this basis, ‘PFS’ being constructed is classified as an 
"immovable property" and credit is not admissible on inward supplies which include pre -
fabricated movable components and also on inward Works contract services pertaining to ‘PFS’ 
technology as per section 17(5)(c) and section 17(5)(d) of CGST/TGST Act’2017.  
 
10  In view of the above discussions, the question raised by the applicant is clarif ied as 
per the below ruling:  
 
 
Questions   
Ruling  
1. Whether Input Tax Credit is 
allowed for construction of shed 
using pre -fabricated technology?  Applicant is constructing a Pre fabricated shed ( ‘PFS’) on 
land and it is intended to be used as a permanent 
structure for the purpose of conducting business, which 
has beneficial enjoyment of the land on which it is being 
built. The applicant intends to use technology, for the 
construction of the ‘PFS’, which  involve s the application 
of pre -fabricated structures and also civil work for 
supporting the pre -fabricated structure and developing 
the RCC platform of the ‘PFS’. If not for the purpose of 
beneficial enjoyment by way of conducting business on 
the RCC platform, t he ‘PFS’ has no separate existence . 
The ‘PFS’ being constructed is, therefore, an immovable 
property and the input tax credit is not admissible on the 
inward supplies, which may include Works contract 
services, for its construction, as the credit of such t ax 
comes under category of blocked credits as per section 
17(5)(d) and section 17(5)(c) of the CGST/TGST 
Act’2017.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the above, t he Authority for Advance Ruling concurred in the Ruling and has discussed it 
independently.  
 
[Under Section 100(1) of the CGST/TGST Act, 2017, any person aggrieved by this order 
can prefer an appeal before the Telangana State Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling, 
Hyderabad, within 30 days from the date of receipt of this Order]  
 
 
To 
M/s. Sanghi Enterprises ,  
Survey No.15, 16, Mysireddypally,  
Medchal, Medchal Malkajgiri,  
Telangana - 501 401. 
 
Copy submitted to :  
1. The Commissioner  (State Tax) for information.  
2. The Com missioner (Central Tax), Medchal Commissionerate , III Floor, Medchal GST Bhavan , 11-4-
649/B, Lakdikapul, Hyderabad – 500 004Copy to:  
3. The Assistant Commissioner (ST) , Malkajgiri -1 Circle