GUJARAT APPELLATf, AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE RULING
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
D/5, RAJYA KAR BHAVAN, ASHRAM ROAD,
AHMEDABAD - 380 OO9.tff;'o*:lMlpxs-
ADVANCE RULING (APPEAL) NO. GUJ/GAAAR/APPE ALI2O23 IO2
(IN APPLICATION NO. Advance Ruling/SGST&CCST /2021 / ARl23')
Date:I? .03.202i
Name and address of the
appellantM/s. Shreeji Earth Movers.
(Prop. Kababhai Popatbhai Savalia)
Village-Kolithad,Taluka-Gondal,Rajkot.
GSTIN olthe appellant 24BBTPS34O2DIZR
Advance Ruling No. and Date GUJ/GAAR/R/43i202 I DATED 1 1.08.2021
Date of appeal 08.10.2021
Date of Personal Hearing 06.01.2023
Shri. Ramesh Rakholiya, Advocate
At the outset we would like to nrake it clear that the provisions of the Central Goods
and Services Tax Act, 2017 and Gujarat Goods and Services Tax Act, 201 7 (hereinafter
referred to as the 'CGST Act, 2017' and the 'GGST Act. 2017' are in parimaterra and have
the same provisions in like matter and differ from each other only on a few specific
provisions. Therefore, unless a mention is particularly made to such dissimilar provisions, a
reference to the CGST Act,2017 would also mean reference to the corresponding similar
provisions in the GGST Act.2017.
2. The present appeal has been filed under Section 100 of the CGST Act, 2017 and the
GGST Act, 2Ol7 by M/s Shreeji Earth Movers, Village-Kolithad, Taluka-Gondal. Rajkot
36031 I against the Advance Ruling No. CUJ/GAAR/R/4312021 dated I L08.2021.
Brief facts of the case:
3. M/s Shreeji Earth Movers (hereinafter referred to as 'the appellant') is a registered
firm having GST No. 24BBTPS3402D1ZR with place of business at Kolithad. Taluka-
Gondal, Dist. Raikot (Gujarat).
3.1 The appellant is engaged in providing works contract service directly to sub-
contractors who execute the contract with the main contractor for original contract work
with the irrigation department (State of Gujarat). M/s. JSIW Infrastructure P\,.t. Ltd.,
received the original contract from the irrigation department (State of Gujara
construction of pumping station and supplying and laying MS pipeline rvith all
Page 1of 12{HvIC19,q^qI
Present for the appellant2
etc. and maintenance of the commissioned project for l0 years. M/s. JSIW Infrastructure
executed the same contract with M/s. Radhe Construction. Further. M/s. Radhe
Construction executed the same contract with the appellant.
3.2 The appellant had filed application with the Authority for Advance Ruling, Gujarat
seeking ruling on the following:
a) At what rate of tax the liability should be determined on services provided by
appellant (sub-contractors) to the main contractor pertaining to the irrigation,
construction and maintenance works to the irrigation department, State of Gujarat?
b) Under which head we should classify our services to execute irrigation,
construction and maintenance work supplied to the irrigation department, State of
Guj arat?
c) Whether to charge a tax rate of 12% GST or l8% GST?
3.3 Guiarat Authority for Advance Ruling, Ahmedabad (herein after referred to as
'GAAR') vide Advance Ruling order No. GUJ/CAANW43/2021 dated 11.08.2021 gave
the following ruling:
"GST rate on subject supply is 1B%for services supplied by the sub-sub-controctor
to sub-contractor ltt[/s Radhe and supply merits entry ot Heading 9954, Entry No.
3(ii) of Notification No. 11/2017-CT(R) dated 28.06.2017".
4. Aggrieved by the above decision of the GAAR, the appellant has filed this appeal on
the following grounds:
4.1 The appellant is works contractor and executes and undertake composite supply of
works contract as defined in clause ll9 of Section 2 ofCGST,2017 and was awarded a
sub-contract by another works contractor to execute the original work of civil construction
works supply to the Inigation department of Guiarat.
4.2 As per Notification No. 20/2017-CT (R) dated 22.08.2017, rate of GST is l2%o for
composite supply of works contracts supplied by way of construction, erection commission
or installation of original works pertaining to the irrigation and construction works supply to
the Irrigation Department, State of Gujarat.
.:
^c,oo
Page 2 ot 123
4.3 As per Sr. No 12 in press release of 25tl'meeting of GST council held at New Delhi
on 18.01.2018, the rate of GST applicable to the main contractor should be levied by sub-
contractors.
4.4 As per Notification No. 0l /201 8-CT(Rate) dated 25.01 .2018. the service provided by
sub-contractors to the main contractor for irrigation and construction works supply to the
state government is not specified in the Notification.
4.5 As per Item No. (iii) of Notification No. 20l2017-Central Tax (Rate). dated
22.08.2017 , the composite value of works contract is classified @ 12%. The sub-contractors
providing services to the main contractor is further classified only under two categories i.e
item No. (ix) and (x) of the subject Notification.
4.6 Though they are sub-contractors providing civil construction services to the main
contractor, which may not be covered in the aforesaid entry, it is their belief that the rate
applicable to them is 12% which is the rate applicable for composite supply of rvorks
contract as defined in clause ( I 19) of Section 2 of CGST Act.20 I 7 supplied by way ol'
construction, erection, comrnissioning .or installation of original works pertaining to civil
construction irrigation and construction work supply to the irrigation department of Gujarat.
4.7 As per Section 2( I l9) ol the CGST Act. 20 I 7, "rvorks contract means a contract lbr
building. construction. fabrication, completion. erection, installation. fitting out.
improvement. modification. repair, maintenance, renovation, alteration or commissioning of
any immovable property wherein transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some
other form) is involved in the execution of such contract"l as per Section 2(5) of CGST Act'
2017, "Agent" means a person including a factor. broker, commission agent, arhatia, del
credere agent, an auctioneer or any other mercantile agent, by whatever name called, who
carries on the business of supply or receipt of goods or services or both on behalf ol
anothen
4.8 Contractor and sub-contractor are not defined under the CGST Act. 201 7 but as per thc
general deflnition Contractor means-a person or firm that undertakes a contract from the
employer to provide materials or labour to perform a service or do job at a specified price and I
sub-contractor means a person who is hired by a general contractor (or prime contractor,or main
contractor) to perform a specific task as part of the overall project or the total project at a
specified price for services provided to the project by the originating employer!AUTHOpiT
s
-arsr AHtrEc
Page 3 of 12{
4.9 When the contractor awards either rvholly or partially the contractual obligation to a sub-
contractors, the contract remains the same and the work to be performed by the contractor as
well as sub-contractors remains same and identical to what is specified in the contract between
the main contractor and the employer. It can be seen from this definition that the subcontractor
is not doing anything other than what is specified in the contract between the main contractor
and the employer.
4.1 I As the work get transferred directly to the employer by the sub-contractor, the works
contract remains the same and therefore leads to the conclusion that there is only one contract
which is undertaken by the contractor as well as sub-contractors.
4.13 The intent of the Covernment is to bring the rates of main contractor and sub-contractor
at par while they are providing their services to Central Govemment, State Government. Union
'Ienitory. a local authority, a Govemmental Authority or a Government Entity. lrrigation
department being a Govemmental Authority,{Entit1. is already covered under clause (x) ol'
heading 9954 of Section 5 of classification of services even though not specified separately.
Thus the rate applicable for civil works contract eanied out for railways in para (v) of heading
9954 of Section 5 ofclassification of services should be applicable to sub-contractors also.
4.14 vide letter dated 04.10.2021. copies olthe lbllowing judgments were submifted:
A)
B)
c)
D)
E)S.P.Singla Construction Pvt Lrd.{(2019) I I I Taxmann.com 356 (AAR-PLINJAB)}
M/s Shree Construction .{(2019) 103 Taxmann.com 448 (AAAR-Mah)}
NHPC Ltd .{(2019) 104 Taxmann.com 365 (AAR-Uttarakhand)}
ST Engineering Electronics Ltd . {(20 I 9)lO9Taxmann.com 367 (AAR-Mah)}
Yash Nirman Engineers & Conrractors. { (2019) 109 Taxmann.c om 36i. (
^c
i {hnFDPage 4 of 124.10 As per the definition of agent, an agent is a person who carries on the same business of
supply and /or receipt of goods or services or both on behalf of another. Thus sub-contractors
can be called as an agent who is also undertaking the same supply of service for the main
contractor. It can also be said that the sub-contractor is only an agent of the contractor and the
works undertaken by him passes directly from the subcontractors to the employer.
4.12 Since the appellant is only an agent of the contractor and the prope(y in goods passes
directly from him to the employer, it can be concluded that there is only one contract between
the inigation department and contractor as well as sub-contractor.5
F) State of Andhra Pradesh &Ohters V Larsen & Turbo Ltd & Other -Supreme Courr oi
India {ivil appeal No. 5239 of 2008.
5. During the course of virtual personal hearing held on 06.01.2023, the authorized
representative of the appellant, Shri. Ramesh Rakholiya, Advocate reiterated the grounds madc
in the written submissions.
5.1 In pursuance to transfer of Member (SGST), the appellant was informed regarding the
same for fresh personal hearing in the matter. Shri Ramesh Rakholia. Advocate, vide his
letter/mail dated 13.03.2023 requested to decide the appeal on the basis of material already on
record, written submission and earlier representation/hearing.
DISCUSSION & FINDINGS
6. Time limit for filing appeal:
6.1 The impugned Ruling has been passed by the GAAR on I1.08.2021. In the Form
GST ARA-02 regarding Appeal to the Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling, ar sr.No.2.
the appellant has shown the date of communication of the Advance Ruling as'17.0g.2021'.
we observe that the present appeal filed on 08.10.2021 has been filed after the prescribed
time limit of 30 days from the date of communication of Ruling, which expired on
1610912021. as prescribed under section 100(2) of the CGST Act. 2017. There has been a
delay of 22 days. As per order dated 10.01.2022 ol Hon'ble Supreme court in Misc.
Application No.2l of 2022 in Misc. Application No.665 of 2021 in Suo Moto Writ Petition
(c) No.3 of 2020. the period from 15.03.2020 till 28.02.2022 shall stand excluded in
computing the period of limitation and all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days
from 01.03.2022. In view of the above. we consider the appeal to be filed within prescribed
time limit as per Section 100 of the cGST Act, 2017 andproceed to decide the appeal on its
merits.
7 . we have gone through the facts of the case as submitted in the Appeal papers. the
decision of Gujarat Authority for Advance Ruling, documents on record and oral as well as
written submissions made by the appellant.
7.1 We find that M/s JSIW Inlrastructure Pr.t Ltd. Ahrnedabad (hereinafler referred ro as
'the main contractor') was awarded the Engineering. procurement and construction
;,}\contract by the Irrigation Department of State of Gujarat vide work order dated 0g
PaBe 5 of 126
The main contractor appointed M/s Radhe Constructions, Rajkot as a sub-contractor and as per
agreement dated 02.09.2019 between the main contractor and the sub-contractor, the scope of
work included "crop compensation, unloading, excavalion, laying, jointing, testing, backfilling,
disposal of surplus earth ond comnxissioning of MS Pipeline, Erection of butter/ly, scour & Air
valves of various diameter and associated civil works including supply of all consumable
materials'. Further. the sub-contractor i.e M/s Radhe Constructions issued a work order dated
15.09.2019 in the name of the appellant where the scope of work included 'Liasioning of Crop
composition, Excavation of all strata including hard rock, Laying of water pipes including
pipes, sand bedding, Lowering, Laying. jointing of pipes, RT of each joint. inner & outer joint
coating, back filling, removal of surplus earth, restoration & NOC from farmer,lesting etc'.
Thus. the above facts make it clear that in the instant case, the original contract was awarded to
the main contractor by the Inigation Department of State of Gujarat and the appellant has been
awarded the work order by a sub-contractor of the main contractor.
7.2 In the instant case the appellant has referred to Sr. No (iii) of Notification No.20l2017-
CT (Rate) dated 22.08.2017 to submit that the rate applicable to them is l2%. We find that the
entry No. 3(iii) of the subject Notification provides fbr rate of tax @l2Vo if any taxable person is
providing composite supply of works contract as defined in cause (119) of Section 2 of the
CGST Act, 2017 to Central Government, State Govemment, Union Territory, a local authority
or a Govemmental Authority or a Covernment Entity by way of construction, erection.
commissioning. installation. completion. tltting out. repair. maintenance. renovation. or
alteration ofl -
(a) a historical monument. archaeological site or remains of national importance,
archaeological excavation. or antiquity specified rtnder the Ancient Monuments and
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. 1958 (24 of 1958);
(b) canal, dam or other irrigation works;
(c) pipeline, conduit or plant for (i) water supply (ir) water treatment. or (iii) sewerage
treatment or disposal.
It is not the case ofthe appellant that they have received any work order from any of
the Govemmental authorities mentioned above. They don't have any work order issued in
their tavour by any of the aforesaid Govemmental authorities.
7.3 The appellant has f'urther submitted that the sub-contractors providing services to the
main contractor is further classified only under two categories mentioned at item No.(ix) and (x)
\
aoPage 6 of 127
of Notification No. 0l/2018-CT (Rate)dated 25.01.2018 arnending the ori-einalNotification Nr,.
l l/2017-cT(R).
For the sake of convenience" the provisions relating to entry No. 3(ix) and (x) of.
Notification No. 01i201 8-CT (Rate) dated 25.0 L20 I 8 is reproduced herein under:
Description of services Rate
in o/oCondition
(ix) Composite supply of works
contract as defined in clause ( 1 l9)
of section 2 of the Central Goods
and Services Tax Act. 2017
provided by a sub-contractor to
the main contractor providing
services specified in item (iii) or
item (vi) above to the Central
Government, State Govemment,
Union territory, a local authority,
a Govemmental fiuthority or a
Govemment Entity.6Provided that where the services are
supplied to a Government Entity, they
should have been procured by the said
entity in relation to a work entrusted to it by
the Central Govemment. State Govemment,
Union territory or local authority, as the
case may be.
2.5Provided that where the services are
supplied to a Government Entity" they
should have been procured by the said
entity in relation to a work entrusted to it by
the Central Government. State Government,
Union territory or local authority, as the
case may be.
On a combined reading of the provisions made under serial No. 3(iii). Sr.No 3(ix) and
Sr.No 3(x) of the amended Notification No. I l/2017-cT (R). which the appellant has
referred to, it is seen that the rate of GST leviable is @ 12% or 5% (CGST and SGST taken
together), as the case may be, when the specified services are provided to the central
Government, State Govemment, Union territory, a local authority, a Govemmental
Authority or a Government Entity. by the main contractor and sub-contractor to the rnain
tallT8oc0ntract0r.
PaSe 7 of 12c{(x) Composite supply of works
contract as defined in clause (119)
of section 2 of the Central Goods
and Services Tax Act. 2017
provided by a sub-contractor to
the main contractor Providing
services specified in item (vii)
above to the Central Govemment;
State Govemment, Union
territory, a local authority, a
Govemmental Authority or a
Govemment Entity.8
In the present case. we find that the appellant is neither the main contractor nor the
sub-contractor. There is no agreement between the appellant and the main contractor to be
treated as a sub-contractor.
7.4 From the submissions made by the appellanr it is seen that the M/s JSIW
Infrastructure was the main contractor who was awarded the works contract service
pertaining to the Inigation Department of the State of Gujarat. This main contractor then
engaged a sub-contractor M/s Radhe Construction. Raj kot for executing part of this contract
who in turn engaged the appellant as the second level sub-contractor for executing part of
the original works contract service pertaining to the state Govemment project. From the
above it is clear that the appellant was not engaged directly as a contractor. or as a sub-
contractor of the main contractor. by the State Govemment of Gujarat for supply of the
works contract pertaining to the lrrigation Department. Therefore, though the appellant is
emphasizing on the fact that the composite works contract services provided by him
pertains to the Govemmental authority specified under Serial No. 3(iii) of the Notification
No. I l/201 7-CT(R) as amended, it is seen that there is no direct nexus betrveen the
appellant and the Governmental authority (lnigation Department) since the documents
reveal that the appellant is supplying the service on the basis of the work order of a sub-
contractor i.e M/s Radhe Construction and not directly from the main contractor, M/s JSIW
Infrastructure P Ltd. who had originally received the contract from the Inigation department
of the State Govemment of Gujarat.
7.5 The appellant has f'urther submitted that though their supply may not be covered
under Sr. No 3(ix), they believe that they are eligibte for the concessional rate of l2%o as
they are providing composite supply of works contract as defined in clause ( I l9) of section
2 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 in the capacity of sub-contractor to the
rnain contractor. However. this defense ofthe appellant is not acceptable since in the instant
case it is seen that the appellant is a sub-contractor of the sub-contractor of the main
contractor. For availing the benefit of the concessional rate of l2vo in terms of the
provisions mentioned in the Notilication No. l l/2017-cr(R) as amended, it is important
that both the criterion. i.e. the nature of supply of service to the specified authority (as per
Notification No. 201201 7-cr(R) ) and the status of service provider (as per Notification No.
l/2018-CT(R) ) should be fulfilled. However. as already discussed supra. there is no direct
relation between the main contractor and the appellant and the appellant and the
Govemmental authority. Therefore. it is clear that the appellant does not fulfill the criteria
mentioned in Sr. No 3(ix) of Notification No. l/2018-CT(R) dated 25.01.2018.
Page 8 of 12 l,lhrtES^cI
appellant lvho actually is functioning as a sub-contractor ofthe sub-contractor ofthe main
contractor, is not eligible for the concessional rate of tax @12% .
7.6 Further. on perusing the copy of the sub-contract Agreement between M/s JSIW
Infrastructure P\,t Ltd. Ahrnedabad (the main contractor) and M/s Radhe Construction.
Rajkot (the sub-contractor) dated 2.9.2019. it is seen that the main contractor had
appointed M/s Radhe Construction as a sub-contractor fbr execution of the work specified
in the Agreement. Further. Point No. 9(v) of the Agreement under reference states that the
M/s JSIW (the main contractor) shall have at his option and be at liberty to cancel the order
wholly or a part of the order and proceed to carry out the work through some other agency
at the risk and cost of the sub-contractor. if the sub-contractor sublets part or full work to
other parties without the consent ofthe contractor. Thus, there is a prohibition imposed by
the main Contractor on the sub-contractor M/s Radhe Construction from further sub-
contracting the work allotted to them. without the consent of the main contractor. The
appellant has also not produced any cvidence to show that they were appointed by M/s
Radhe Construction after obtaining the consent ofthe main contractor.
7.7 The appellant has also taken the recourse of definition of 'Agent' as defined under
Section 2(5) of CGST Act, 2017 and submitted that they are working as an agent of the
contractor and the property in goods passes directly frorn them to the irrigation department
(State Governrnent) rvhich also lead to the conclusion that tliere is onl}'one contract that is
between the Irrigation Department (State Government) and contractor as well as sub-
contractor. These contentions of the appellant is without any basis since it is observed that
the confact is between the appellant and M/s Radhe Construction. Though the ultimate
recipient of service rnay be a Governmental authority, yet the appellant cannot be
considered as the sub-contractor to the main contractor fulfilling the conditions of the
Notification No. 1l/2017-CT(R) dated 28.06.2017 as amended by Notification No. l/2018-
CT(R) dated 25.01.201 8.
7 .8 On further verification of the EPC contract dated 08.03.20 I 9 awarded by the
Irrigation Department to the main contractor. it is seen that the main contractor has sub
contracted only a part of the main contract to M/s Radhe Construction who in tum had
engaged the appellant for further execution of the services as per the work order issued in
the name of the appellant. Further, in the work order dated 05.09.2019 of Mis Radhe
Construction. it is seen that at point No. 5. M/s Radhe Construction has mentionedao&i
would be paying applicable GST @l8o/o in addition to the other prices mentione w
Page 9 of 12^cl0
Ord€r, This would seem to suggest that the sub-contractor i.c M/s Radhe Construction was
aware that further sub-contracting this work would be appropriately leviable to GST @18%
and not eligible for the concessional rate of GST@12%.
In view of the above discussions, the contention of the appellant that they are
covered under the provisions 3(iii) and 3(ix) ofthe amended Notification No. lll2017-
CT(Rate) is highly misplaced.
8. The appellant further submits that as per Sr. No. 12 in press release of 25th meeting
of GST council held at New Delhi on 18.01.2018, rhe rate of GST applicable to the main
contractor should be levied by sub-contractors. The relevant entry at Sr. No 12 relating to
services referred by the appellant is reproduced herein under:
" (12) ToreduceGSTrate (from l8%to l2%) onWorksContractServices (WCS)provided
by sub-contraclor to the main controctor providing l,yCS to Cenlral Government, Slate
Government, Union territory, a local authority, o governmental authority or a Government
Entity, which attract GST of l2'%. Likeu,ise, l(CS attracting 5% GST, their sub-contractor
u,ould also be liable @5%. "
The wordings in the aforesaid Press Release accord with the Notification and allows
the benefit ofthe reduced rate of GST only to the sub-contractor of the main contractor only
and not to the second level sub-contractor i.e. sub-contractor to sub-contractor. Therefore.
reliance placed by the appellant on this press release is also completely unfounded.
9. The appellant has further contended that though they are sub-contractors providing
civil construction services to the rnain contractor. which may not be covered in the Serial
3(ix), it is their belief that the rate of GST leviable in their case is 12% which is the rate
applicable for composite supply of works contract as defined in clause ( I l9) of Section 2 of
CGST Act, 2Ol7.ll is observed that the said entry entails benefit of concessional rate only
1o a sub-contractor of the main contractor for providing the services so specified. No tax can
be levied and collected except according to the authority of law. There are plethora of
judgments of various authorities where it is held that taxes are to be determined as per the
taxing statue and benefit of concessional/Exemption Notifications is available only upon
strict compliance of conditions mentioned therein. Reliance is placed on the decision of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CCE Vs M/s Doaba Steel Rolling Mills
[201](269)ELT 298 (SC)] wherein it was held that once it is shown that an assessee falls
OR
n9).:
t
4huEoPage 10 of L2ll
rvithin the letter of law. he must be taxed however great the hardship rnay appear to the
iudicialmind . Further. in the case of Dilip Kumar and Cornpany (reported at 2018-TI0L-
302-SC-CUS-CB), the Apex Court held that exemption Notification should be interpreted
strictly and the burden of proving applicability would be on the assessee to show that his
case comes within the parameters of the exemption clause or exemption notification. It is
noted here that the appellant themselves have admitted that their case may not be covered
under the said entry ofthe subject Notification.
10. As regards the reliance placed by the appellant on the Rulings given by AAR, Punjab
in the case of M/s S.P Singla Constructions (P) Ltd, the Advance Ruling given by
Maharshtra Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling in the case of M/s Shree Construction
and the decision of the Apex Court in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh & Others Vs
Larsen & Turbo Ltd & Other-Civil appeal No. 5239 of2008, the same have already been
conectly discussed and distinguished by Gujarat Authority for Advance Ruling in the
impugned order. The appellant have additionally relied upon the decision of AAR. Tamil
Nadu in the case of ST Engineering Electronics Ltd. The issue involved in this case rvas
whether supply by the applicant is a composite supply and if yes rvhether the rate of tax
@60/o CGST as per entry No. 3(v) of Notification No. I I /2017-CT(R) is applicable to a sub-
contractor. The facts are diflerent in this case and therefbre not relevant. Similarly. the facts
in the case ol Yash Nirman Engineers & Contractors are different since the said casc
pertains to works contract service by \\'a, ol construction ol houses pertaining to the low
cost houses in affordable housing projects. Further in the case ofNHPC Ltd, relied upon by
the appellant, the issue involved was with regard to subletting the contract to other
subcontractors. There was difference ol opinion among the lnembers of the advance ruling
authority and the matter was ret-ened to appellate authority of advance ruling. The appellate
authority held that the works contract services for the road construction provided by the
sub-contractor to PWD, Uttarakhand, who in tum is providing works contract services of
road construction to M/s.NHPC Ltd.. is not exempted from GST. The sub sub-contractor
was denied the benetlt of the exemption notification. Furtherrnore, as per Section 103 ( I ) of
CGST Act, 2017, any advance ruling is binding only on the applicant who had sought it and
the concemed officer or the jurisdictional otficer in respect of applicant.
ll. In view of the above discussions, we do not agree with the contention of the
appellant that they are eligible for the concessional rate of GST @12%o in terms of
Notification No. 2012017-CT(Rate) dated 22.08.2017 and Notification No.l/20
dated 25.01.2018 as the activity undertaken by the appellant is not covered u
s
Page 11 of 12t2
3(iii) or under 3(ix) of the Notification No. I l/2017-CT(R) as amended and agree with the
findin-es of the Gujarat Authority for Advance Ruling that the supply made by the appellant
is not covered under entry No. 3(iii) or 3(ix) of Notification No. I I/2017-CT(R) dared
28.06.2017, as amended. The appellant is liable to discharge tax rate CGST @9% and
GGST@g% under Entry No 3(ii) of Notification No.tll2017-CT(R) dated 28.06.201j
further amended vide Entry No.3(xii) of Notillcation ibid as amended.
12. In view of the foregoing, we reject the appeal filed by appellant M/s. Shreeji Earth
Movers and uphold the Advance Ruling No. G[IJ/CAAWR/43/2021 d,ated, I1.08.2021 of
the Gujarat Authority fbr Advance Ruling.
4,,,l l'
Vakil )
Member (SGST)
Place: Ahmedabad
Date: d, .8.2023Member (CGST)
!l@*
Page 12 of 12