आयकर  अपीलीय अिधकरण,  ‘ए’ ᭠यायपीठ, चे᳖ई  
       IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL 
       ‘A’ BENCH, CHENNAI 
         ᮰ी वी दुगाᭅ राव, ᭠याियक सद᭭य  एवं  ᮰ी मंजुनाथ. जी, लेखा सद᭭य के समᭃ 
       BEFORE SHRI V. DURGA RAO, HON’BLE JUDICIAL MEMBER AND 
      SHRI MANJUNATHA. G, HON’BLE ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
 
आयकर अपील सं./ITA No.: 2032/Chny/2019  
िनधाᭅरण वषᭅ / Assessment Year: 2012-13  
 
 
T. Rajendran, 
New No. 4A, Old No. 33, 
Hindi Prachar Sabha Street, 
T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 017. 
[PAN: AEIPR-6234-B] 
 
  
v. Assistant Commissioner of 
Income Tax, 
Non Corporate Circle 20, 
Chennai. 
(अपीलाथᱮ/Appellant)                             (ᮧ᭜यथᱮ/Respondent) 
 
 
अपीलाथᱮ  कᳱ  ओर से/Appellant by      :  Shri. K.G. Raghunath, Advocate 
ᮧ᭜यथᱮ कᳱ ओर से/Respondent by       :  Shri. AR V Sreenivasan, Addl. CIT 
 
           सुनवाई कᳱ तारीख/Date of Hearing              :     09.02.2023 
घोषणा कᳱ तारीख/Date of Pronouncement   :    13.04.2023 
                                         
आदेश /O R D E R  
 
PER MANJUNATHA. G, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER:  
 
 
This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the 
order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals)-7, Chennai, dated 31.03.2019 and pertains to 
assessment year 2012-13.:-2-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
2. At the outset, we find that there is a delay of 32 days in 
filing of appeal before the Tribunal, for which a petition along 
with affidavit explaining reasons for delay in filing appeal has 
been filed.  The ld. Counsel for the assessee, submitted that 
the assessee was suffering from various ailments and was 
under treatment when the order of the CIT(A) was served on 
the assessee.   Since, the assessee was on medical 
treatment, he could not file appeal which resulted in delay of 
32 days.  The delay in filing of appeal is neither intentional nor 
for want of undue benefit, but purely beyond control of the 
assessee.  Therefore, delay may be condoned in the interests 
of justice.  The ld. DR, on the other hand submitted that 
although the assessee gave medical reasons for non-filing of 
appeal in his affidavit, but no evidence has been filed.  
Therefore, delay should not be condoned. 
 
3. We have heard both the parties and considered relevant 
contents of petition filed by the assessee for condonation of 
delay.  We find that the assessee was suffering from various 
ailments and was under treatment and in this regard, he has 
filed a certificate from the doctor, who was treating the 
appellant.  From the reasons given by the assessee for not:-3-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
filing appeal, it is very clear that there is no deliberate attempt 
from the assessee to delay in filing of appeal.  Therefore, 
considering the reasons given by the assessee, we condone 
the delay in filing of appeal and admit appeal filed by the 
assessee for adjudication. 
 
4. The assessee has raised the following grounds of appeal: 
“1. The Assessment Order for the Assessment Year-2012-13, 
passed under Sec.143(3) of the Act, by the Learned Assessing 
Officer was arbitrary and is against law and contrary to facts of 
the case and hence Erroneous and untenable in Law.  
2. The Assessing Officer has grossly erred by ignoring the 
evidences and the relevant documents furnished to 
substantiate the fact that the payments made for purchase of 
Right of the film "Osthi" and "Vaanam" for a value of Rs. 
4,73,65,001/- are during the course of genuine business 
transactions of the appellant, and the provisions of Section 
40A(3) of the Act, cannot be invoked on the entries found In 
the ledger books of the appellant ; without appreciating the facts 
and circumstances of the case.  
3. The Learned Assessing Officer has miserably failed to 
comprehend and appreciate the binding nature of the decisions 
of the various Hon'ble High courts on the same Issue or hand 
and various associated aspects thereof.  
4. In view of the above and in view of further grounds that 
may be advanced, as the circumstance may warrant, in the 
interest of deliverance of Justice, during the course of 
hearings, it is prayed that the Honourable Commissioner of 
Income Tax (Appeals) may be pleased to grant suitab relief 
after considering all the evidences and explanations that the 
Assessee could produce before the Honourable Commissioner 
of Income Tax (Appeals), during the course of hearing on 
appeals. on the issues raised in the Assessment Order concerned.”:-4-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
5. The brief facts of the case are that, the assessee is in the 
business of film distribution under name and style of Chimbu 
Cine Arts, a proprietary concern.  The appellant is also the 
managing director of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd, which is 
also in the business of film distribution.  The appellant had 
filed his return of income for the assessment year 2012-13 on 
26.09.2012, admitting a loss of Rs. 2,86,53,021/-.  The case 
has been selected for scrutiny through CASS and during the 
course of assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer 
noticed that the assessee is engaged in the business of film 
distribution.  During the financial year relevant to assessment 
year 2012-13, the predominant component of the credits and 
debits to the profit and loss account relates to the sale and 
purchase of the rights of the movies ‘Vaanam and Osthi’.  It 
was further noted that, as per ledger folio of ‘Osthi’ right 
purchase and ‘VTV production Vaanam’ in the books of 
proprietary concern of the assessee M/s. Chimbu Cine Arts, 
substantial portion of the payment has been made in cash 
amounting to Rs. 4,73,65,001/- and the particulars of cash 
transactions are tabulated in para 3 of assessment order.  The 
AO, called upon the assessee to explain as to why cash 
payment in excess of Rs. 20,000/- shall not be disallowed u/s.:-5-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
40A(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Act”).   
 
6. In response the assessee submitted that during the 
assessment year 2012-13, the film in the name of Osthi was 
produced by M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd and 
released on 8th December, 2011.  M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd entered into a tri-party agreement on 
09.11.2011, for distribution of the said film with M/s. Kural TV 
Creations Pvt Ltd and M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited.  
As per agreement, the release date and time for the movie 
was fixed on 08th December, 2011.  M/s. Kural TV Creations 
Pvt Ltd, a private limited company, had engaged the services 
of the appellant, the proprietor of Chimbu Cine Arts, as an 
agent for the purpose of further distribution and marketing of 
the film.  As per agreement between M/s. Kural TV Creations 
Pvt Ltd and the appellant, the role and responsibility of the 
appellant is to collect the money in cash/cheque from each of 
the exhibitors/theatre owners for onward payment to M/s. 
Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd, through the bank account 
of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  As per agreement between:-6-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
the producer of film and distributor, time was essence of the 
contract and as per which, before releasing the film on 08th 
December, 2011, both M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd and 
M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited were jointly responsible 
to remit Rs. 12.75 crores one day before theatrical release 
date i.e., 07th December, 2011.  Since, the assessee was 
acting as an agent for M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd, he has 
collected cash from exhibitor/theatre owners for onward 
remittance to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd through 
the bank account of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  The cash 
payment reflected in ledger account of Osthi right purchase 
and VTV production Vaanam, is the very same cash collected 
from exhibitors and theatre owners and gave to M/s. Kural TV 
Creations Pvt Ltd.  Since, money collected from exhibitors and 
theatre owners as an agent on behalf of the distributor,  same 
cannot be treated as expenditure of the assessee for the 
purpose of provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act.  
 
7. The AO, however was not convinced with the explanation 
furnished by the assessee and according to the AO, there is no 
compulsion to pay cash and transactions are not in the nature 
of any of the exception as provided under the Rule 6DD of the:-7-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
IT Rules, 1962.  Therefore, rejected arguments of the 
assessee and disallowed cash payment of Rs. 4,73,65,001/- 
u/s. 40A(3) of the Act.  
 
8. Being aggrieved by the assessment order, the assessee 
preferred an appeal before the CIT(A).  Before the ld. CIT(A), 
the assessee has reiterated his arguments made before the AO 
and submitted that as an agent of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt 
Ltd, he had collected cash from exhibitors/theatre owners for 
onward remittance to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd 
through bank account of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  
Although, amount collected from exhibitors/theatre owners 
has been debited into profit and loss account, but fact remains 
that money has been collected on behalf of the distributors 
and thus, the question of invoking of provisions of section 
40A(3) of the Act does not arise.  The assessee further 
contended that, there is a business expediency in collecting 
cash, because there was a condition in the tri-party agreement 
between the producer of the movie M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd and distributors M/s. Kural TV Creations 
Pvt Ltd and M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited, for payment 
of specified amount one day before the release of the film.:-8-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
Unless, the payment is made the distributor cannot exhibit the 
movie.  Therefore, there was urgent requirement for payment 
of cash and thus, the assessee has collected cash from 
exhibitors and paid to distributors. 
 
9. The ld. CIT(A), after considering relevant submissions of 
the assessee and also taken note of provisions of section 
40A(3) of the Act and Rule 6DD of IT Rules, 1962, opined that 
there is no dispute with regard to the payment made in cash 
which is in excess of Rs. 20,000/- as prescribed under 40A(3) 
of the Act and further, when the case of the assessee does not 
come under any of exception as provided under the Rule 6DD 
of IT Rules, 1962, the AO has rightly disallowed cash 
payments u/s. 40A(3) of the Act.  Therefore, rejected 
arguments of the assessee and sustained additions made by 
the AO towards disallowance of cash payment u/s. 40A(3) of 
the Act.  
 
10. The ld. Counsel for the assessee, submitted that the ld. 
CIT(A) erred in confirming additions made towards cash 
payments u/s. 40A(3) of the Act, without appreciating the fact 
that there is a business expediency in making cash payment in:-9-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
as much as tri-party agreement between M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd and M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd & 
M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited, there is a requirement 
of making payment of Rs. 12.75 crores, one day before the 
theatrical release of film.  Unless, the distributors make 
payment to the producer, they cannot release the film for 
public audience.  Since, there was urgent requirement for 
making payment, the assessee being an agent of M/s. Kural 
TV Creations Pvt Ltd, has collected cash from 
exhibitors/theatre owners for onward payment of money to 
M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd through bank account 
of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  Further, the money 
collected from exhibitors/theatre owners and paid to 
distributor is neither belongs to assessee nor expenditure of 
the assessee.  Therefore, the question of application of 
provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act, does not arise.  In this 
regard, he relied upon the decision of ITAT Delhi Benches in 
the case of M/s. Geo Connect Ltd vs DCIT in ITA No. 
2896/Del/2018 dated 29.08.2022. 
 
11. The ld. DR, on the other hand supporting the order of the 
ld. CIT(A) submitted that there is no dispute with regard to the:-10-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
fact that the assessee has made cash payment in excess of 
prescribed limit.  It is also not in dispute that case of the 
assessee does not come under any of exception as provided 
under the IT Rules, 1962.  Therefore, the AO has rightly 
disallowed cash payment u/s. 40A(3) of the act and thus, their 
order should be upheld.  In this regard, he relied upon the 
decision of Hon’ble High Court of Madras in the case of 
Vadugananthan Talkies vs ITO [2020] 120 taxmann.com 25 
(Mad). 
 
12. We have heard both the parties, perused materials 
available on record and gone through orders of the authorities 
below.  The factual matrix of the impugned dispute are that 
during the financial year relevant to assessment year 2012-13, 
the assessee was acted as an agent for M/s. Kural TV 
Creations Pvt Ltd and M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited, 
for the purpose of further distribution and marketing of the 
film exhibition in the State of Tamilnadu.  As per the 
agreement between the assessee and M/s. Kural TV Creations 
Pvt Ltd, the role and responsibility of assessee is to enter into 
agreement with exhibitor/theatre owners for screening the 
movie and collect money in cash/cheque from each of said:-11-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
exhibitor/theatre owner for onward payment to M/s. Reliance 
Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd through bank account of M/s. Kural 
TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  The assessee has collected cash from 
various exhibitors/theatre owners on behalf of M/s. Kural TV 
Creations Pvt Ltd and gave to distributor for onward payment 
of money to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd.  
Although, the assessee has credited and debited cash collected 
from exhibitors/theatre owners in his profit and loss account 
as income and expenditure, but fact remains that the role and 
responsibility of assessee is limited to the extent of working as 
an agent for M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd and M/s. Balaji 
Real Media Private Limited.  Therefore, it is necessary to 
examine whether provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act is 
applicable in the given facts and circumstances of this case, in 
light of arrangements between the parties.  It is an admitted 
fact that M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd, is the 
producer of the movie Vaanam.   
 
13. It is also an admitted fact that there is a tri-party 
agreement dated 09.11.2011 between M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd and M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd  and 
also M/s. Balaji Real Media Private Limited.  As per said:-12-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
agreement, date and time for the release of movie was fixed 
on 08th December, 2011.  The agreement further states that 
the distributor is responsible to remit a sum of Rs. 12.75 
crores one day before theatrical release of the film, i.e., on 
07th December, 2011.  Since, it is important to adhere to the 
pre-determined release date of the movie, the assessee was 
under obligation to settle the accounts of various parties as 
directed by the producer of the movie M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd.  Since, the assessee was acting as an 
agent of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd, they have directed 
the assessee to settle the accounts of various parties on behalf 
of M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd and accordingly, 
the assessee has made cash payments to various parties on 
behalf of the M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd and 
debited to the accounts of M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd.  If 
you go by the arrangement between the parties, the assessee 
is neither producer of the movie nor distributor and exhibitor.  
But, he has acted as an agent for distribution and marketing of 
movie.  Therefore, amount paid by the assessee to various 
parties and debited into ledger account of ‘Osthi’ right 
purchase account and VTV production ‘Vaanam’ account, 
cannot be considered as amount paid for purchase of movie,:-13-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
even though the assessee by mistake has debited said amount 
to profit and loss account.  It is a settled principal of law by 
various decisions that, entries in books of accounts will not 
decide the taxability of any income, but what is relevant is to 
see the nature of income and its taxability.  Since, the 
assessee was only an agent for distributor and collected 
money from exhibitor/theater owners on behalf of distributors, 
payment made by the assessee to various parties on behalf of 
producer of movie cannot be considered as 
income/expenditure of the assessee to invoke provisions of 
section 40A(3) of the Act.  
 
14. Another dimension to the issue needs to be considered in 
light of proviso to section 40A(3) of the Act.  Although, 
provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act deals with disallowance 
of cash payment in excess of prescribed limit, but proviso 
provided therein has carved out an exception having regard to 
consideration of business expediency and other relevant 
factors. Therefore, the payment in cash needs to be examined 
in light of proviso provided therein to ascertain whether is 
there any business expediency in making cash payments.  It 
was the argument of the assessee that as per the tri-party:-14-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
agreement between M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd 
and M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd and M/s. Balaji Real Media 
Private Limited, the distributor of the movie shall remit Rs. 
12.75 crores one day before theatrical release of the movie 
i.e., on 07th December, 2011.  As per agreement between the 
parties, the producer of the movie ‘Osthi’, M/s. Reliance Big 
Entertainment Pvt Ltd, has imposed certain conditions to both 
M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd  and M/s. Balaji Real Media 
Private Limited, to settle the accounts of various parties for a 
sum of Rs. 3.91 crores, one day prior to the theatrical release 
to the movie.  Unless, the accounts of various persons 
including technicians of the movie was settled, it is impossible 
to release the movie on the specified date for public audience.  
Since, there was a business expediency in settling of accounts 
of various parties and also as per the directions of the 
producer of the movie, the distributor of M/s. Kural TV 
Creations Pvt Ltd, directed the assessee to make payment to 
various parties out of amount collected from exhibitor/theatre 
owners.  The assessee, as per directions of his principle paid 
amount to various parties and debited to their accounts.  
Therefore, from the above, it is very clear that there is 
business expediency in making cash payments and thus, we:-15-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
are of the considered view that provisions of section 40A(3) of 
the Act cannot be invoked in the given facts and circumstances 
of this case.  Further, the entire cash transactions amounting 
to Rs. 4.73 crores is supported by necessary evidence as per 
which the first payment of Rs. 71 lakhs has been paid by the 
appellant to M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd for onward 
payment to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd.  In this 
regard, necessary bank statements evidencing payment made 
to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd was enclosed.  The 
second payment of Rs. 3,69,15,000/- paid to various parties, 
was out of amount collected by the appellant and to be 
payable to M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd for onwards 
payment to M/s. Reliance Big Entertainment Pvt Ltd., as per 
their directions.  Therefore, genuineness of these two 
payments cannot be doubted.  The balance amount of sum of 
Rs. 33,50,000/- was collected by the appellant and gave to 
M/s. Kural TV Creations Pvt Ltd for settlement of dues payable 
before the release of the film ‘Vaanam’.  From the above, it is 
very clear that the payment to various parties on behalf of 
producer and distributor is not in dispute.  Further, there is a 
business expediency in making these payments because there 
was an urgent requirement to make payment one day before:-16-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
release of the movie.  Unless, these payments are settled, the 
movie cannot be released for public audience.  In this line of 
business, if the schedule is not adhered, there is chance of 
movie being commercially fail which may result in huge loss to 
various parties.  Therefore, we are of the considered view that 
when the assessee has filed necessary evidences to prove his 
case that payments are genuine and said payments are made 
out of business expediency, then in our considered view the 
AO ought not to have disallowed said payments u/s. 40A(3) of 
the Act. 
 
15. At this stage, it is relevant to consider a very important 
decision of ITAT Delhi Benches in the case of M/s. Geo Connect 
Ltd vs DCIT (Supra), where the tribunal under identical set of 
facts and by following certain judicial precedents held that 
where genuineness of the payment made was not doubted and 
the recipient of the amount made a pre-condition for payment 
in cash and further, due to business expediency, the assessee 
had to make payment in cash, said payment cannot be 
disallowed u/s. 40A(3) of the Act.  The relevant findings of the 
Tribunal are as under: 
“8.  We have considered rival submissions and perused the 
materials on record. The factual matrix reveal that the:-17-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
assessee is in real estate business and for that purpose it 
purchased an agricultural land from one Sh. Ugma, an old man 
of 75 years. Towards sale consideration of the said land, the 
assessee issued bearer cheques for an amount of 
Rs.1,06,50,000/- to the seller. It is the stand of the assessee 
from the stage of assessment proceeding itself that the seller 
of the agricultural land made a precondition of payment of 
cash for registration of sale deed. Since, the assessee was 
desperately in need of the land, he had no other option but to 
accede to the pre-condition of the seller. Accordingly, the 
payment was made through bearer cheques. From perusal of 
bank statements, a copy of which is placed in the paper-book, 
it appears that the sale consideration was paid to the seller of 
the agricultural land through eight bearer cheques, which were 
withdrawn on the same day i.e. 07.02.2014. On the very same 
day, the sale deed was registered in favour of the assessee. 
Thus, from the aforesaid facts, it is very much clear that the 
transaction between the parties and the payment made and 
purpose of the payment is well established and genuine.  
 
9. On a reading of section 40A(3) of the Act, it becomes clear 
that any expenditure exceeding the amount prescribed therein 
would not be allowed as deduction, if they are made other than 
by way of account payee cheque or bank draft. However, the 
first proviso to section 40A(3) makes it clear that no 
disallowance under subsection (3) to section 40A should be 
made in such cases and under such circumstances as may be 
prescribed, having regard to the nature and extent of banking 
facilities available, consideration of business expedience and 
other relevant factors. Rule 6DD prescribes the exceptions 
under which section 40A(3) would not apply. Consistent with 
the substantive provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act, sub-
rule (j) of Rule 6DD was introduced. Sub-rule (j) of Rule 6DD, 
which existed in its original form from 01.04.1970 to 
27.07.1995, prior to its amendment, reads as under:  
 
“Rule 6DD: (j) in any other case where the assessee 
satisfies the Income-tax Officer that the payment could 
not be made by way of a crossed cheque drawn on a 
bank or by a crossed bank draft. a. Due to exceptional 
or unavoidable circumstances; or b. because payment in 
the manner aforesaid was not practicable, or would have 
caused genuine difficulty to the payee, having regard to 
the nature of the transaction and the necessity for 
expeditious settlement thereof.”:-18-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
 
10. Thus, on a reading of the first proviso to section 40A(3) 
read with Rule 6DD(j) as reproduced hereinabove, it is very 
much clear that no disallowance under section 40A(3) can be 
made, if the transaction for which the payment is made is 
genuine and due to business expediency and other compelling 
factors payment was required in cash. In case of Attar Singh 
Gurmukh Singh Vs. ITO, 191 ITR 667 (SC), the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court while interpreting the provisions of section 
40A(3) read with Rule 6DD has held as under:  
“6. As to the validity of section 40A(3), it was urged that 
if the price of the purchased material is not allowed to 
be adjusted against the sale price of the material sold 
for want of proof of payment by a crossed cheque or 
crossed bank draft, then the income-tax levied will not 
be on the income but it will be on an assumed income. It 
is said that the provision authorizing levy tax on an 
assumed income would be a restriction on the right to 
carry on the business, besides being arbitrary. 
7. In our opinion, there is little merit in this contention. 
Section 40A(3) must not be read in isolation or to the 
exclusion of rule 6DD. The section must be read along 
with the rule. If read together, it will be clear that the 
provisions are not intended to restrict the business 
activities. There is no restriction on the assessee in his 
trading activities. Section 40A(3) only empowers the 
Assessing Officer to disallow the deduction claimed as 
expenditure in respect of which payment is not made by 
crossed cheque or crossed bank draft. The payment by 
crossed cheque or crossed bank draft is insisted on to 
enable the assessing authority to ascertain whether the 
payment was genuine or whether it was out of the 
income from disclosed sources. The terms of section 
40A(3) are not absolute. Consideration of business 
expediency and other relevant factors are not excluded. 
The genuine and bona fide transactions are not taken 
out of the sweep of the section. It is open to the 
assessee to furnish to the satisfaction of the Assessing 
Officer the circumstances under which the payment in 
the manner prescribed in section 40A(3) was not 
practicable or would have caused genuine difficulty to 
the payee. It is also open to the assessee to identify the 
person who has received the cash payment. Rule 6DD 
provides that an assessee can be exempted from the 
requirement of payment by a crossed cheque or crossed:-19-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
bank draft in the circumstances specified under the rule. 
It will be clear from the provisions of section 40A(3) and 
rule 6DD that they are intended to regulate the business 
transactions and to prevent the use of unaccounted 
money or reduce the chances to use black-money for 
business transactions. - Mudiam Oil Co. v. ITO [1973] 
92 ITR 519 (API. If the payment is made by a crossed 
cheque drawn on a bank or a crossed bank draft, then it 
will be easier to ascertain, when deduction is claimed, 
whether the payment was genuine and whether it was 
out of the income from disclosed sources. In interpreting 
a taxing statute the Court cannot be oblivious of the 
proliferation of black-money which is under circulation in 
our country. Any restraint intended to curb the chances 
and opportunities to use or create black-money should 
not be regarded as curtailing the freedom of trade or 
business.”  
 
11.  As could be seen from the aforesaid decision of the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court, though, constitutional validity of 
section 40A(3) of the Act was upheld, however, the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court observed that the provisions are not intended 
to restrict business activity and the restrictions provided are 
only intended to curb the chances and opportunities to use or 
create black money and the same should not be regarded as 
curtailing the freedom of trade or business. While interpreting 
the provisions of section 40A(3) and Rule 6DD(j), the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has held that the terms of section 40A(3) are 
not absolute. Consideration of business expediency and other 
relevant factors are not excluded. The genuine and bonafide 
transaction are not taken out of the sweep of section. It is 
open to the assessee to furnish to the satisfaction of the 
Assessing Officer, the circumstances under which the payment 
in the manner prescribed under section 40A(3), was not 
practicable or would have caused genuine difficulty to the 
payee. It is also open to the assessee to identify the person, 
who has received the cash payment.  
 
12. Following the aforesaid decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court, 
the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court in case of Anupam Tele 
Services (supra) has observed as under:  
 
“17. Rule 6DD of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 provides 
for situations under which disallowance under section 
40A (3) shall not be made and no payment shall be:-20-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
deemed to be the profits and gains of business or 
profession under the said section. Amongst the various 
clauses, clause (j) which is relevant, read as under:—  
(j) where the payment was required to be made 
on a day on which the banks were closed either 
on account of holiday or strike;  
 
18. It could be appreciated that Section 40A and in 
particular subclause (3) thereof aims at curbing the 
possibility of on-money transactions by insisting that all 
payments where expenditure in excess of a certain sum 
[in the present case twenty thousand rupees must be 
made by way of account payee cheque drawn on a bank 
or account payee bank draft. As held by the Apex Court 
in case of Attar Singh Gurmukh Singh (supra), "..In our 
opinion, there is little merit in this contention. Section 
40A(3) must not be read in isolation or to the exclusion 
of rule 6DD. The section must be read along with the 
rule. If read together, it will be clear that the provisions 
are not intended to restrict the business activities. There 
is no restriction on the assessee in his trading activities. 
Section 40A(3) only empowers the Assessing Officer to 
disallow the deduction claimed as expenditure in respect 
of which payment is not made by crossed cheque or 
crossed bank draft. The payment by crossed cheque or 
crossed bank draft is insisted on to enable the assessing 
authority to ascertain whether the payment was genuine 
or whether it was out of the income from undisclosed 
sources. The terms of section 40A(3) are not absolute. 
Considerations of business expediency and other 
relevant factors are not excluded. Genuine and bona fide 
transactions are not taken out of the sweep of the 
section. It is open to the assessee to furnish to the 
satisfaction of the Assessing Officer the circumstances 
under which the payment in the manner prescribed in 
section 40A(3) was not practicable or would have caused 
genuine difficulty to the payee. It is also open to the 
assessee to identify the person who has received the 
cash payment. Rule 6DD provides that an assessee can 
be exempted from the requirement of payment by a 
crossed cheque or crossed bank draft in the 
circumstances specified under the rule. It will be clear 
from the provisions of section 40A(3) and rule 6DD that 
they are intended to regulate business transactions and:-21-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
to prevent the use of unaccounted money or reduce the 
chances to use black money for business transactions."  
 
19. It was because of these considerations that this 
Court in case of Hynoup Foods (P.) Ltd. (supra) 
observed that the genuineness of the payment and the 
identify of the payee are the first and foremost 
requirements to invoke the exceptions carved out in rule 
6DD(j) of the Income-tax Rules, 1962.  
 
20. In the present case, neither the genuineness of the 
payment nor the identity of the payee were in any case 
doubted. These were the conclusions on facts drawn by 
the Appellate Commissioner. The Tribunal also did not 
disturb such facts but relied solely on Rule 6DD (j) of the 
Rules to hold that since the case of the assessee did not 
fall under the said exclusion clause nor was covered 
under any of the clauses of Rule 6DD, consequences 
envisaged in Section 40A(3) of the Act must follow. 
 
21. In our opinion, the Tribunal committed an error in 
coming to such a conclusion. We would base our 
conclusions on the following reasons:—  
(a) The paramount consideration of Section 
40A(3) is to curb and reduce the possibilities of 
black money transactions. As held by the 
Supreme Court in Attar Singh Gurmukh Singh 
(supra), section 40A(3) of the Act does not 
eliminate considerations of business expediencies.  
(b) In the present case, the appellant assessee 
was compelled to make cash payments on 
account of peculiar situation. Such situation was 
as follow –  
(i) the principal company, to which the assessee 
was a distributor, insisted that cheque payment 
from a cooperative bank would not do, since the 
realization takes a longer time;  
(ii) the assessee was, therefore, required to make 
cash payments only; (iii) Tata Teleservices 
Limited assured the assessee that such amount 
shall be deposited in their bank account on behalf 
of the assessee;  
(iv) It is not disputed that the Tata Teleservices 
Limited did not act on such promise;:-22-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
(v) if the assessee had not made cash payment 
and relied on cheque payments alone, it would 
have received the recharge vouchers delayed by 
4/5 days and thereby severely affecting its 
business operations.  
22. We would find that the payments between the 
assessee and the Tata Teleservices Limited were 
genuine. The Tata Teleservices Limited had insisted that 
such payments be made in cash, which Tata Teleservices 
Limited in turn assured and deposited the amount in a 
bank account. In the facts of the present case, rigors of 
section 40A(3) of the Act must be lifted. 23. We notice 
that the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in 
case of Suit. Harshila Chordia v. ITO f2008] 298 ITR 349 
/Rail had observed that the exceptions contained in Rule 
6DD are not exhaustive and that the said rule must be 
interpreted liberally. 24. Before closing, we may clarify 
that the above observations would apply only to the 
cash payments made by the assessee to the Tata 
Teleservices Limited. No such peculiar facts arise in case 
of payments made to the other two agencies viz., Rajvi 
Enterprise and R.D Infocom. Learned counsel for the 
appellant also clarified that this appeal is confined to 
only the payments made to Tata Teleservices Limited 
and no others. 
 
13.  In case of A. Daga Royal Arts Vs. ITO (supra), the 
Coordinate Bench while dealing with identical issue has 
observed that even after amendment of Rule 6DD(j), the legal 
exposition propounded by the Hon’ble Supreme Court 
regarding consideration of expediency and other relevant 
factors cannot be considered to be diluted as the rules framed 
by way of delegated legislation cannot override the substantive 
legislation in form of section 40A(3) which has not changed its 
character. Following observations of the Coordinate Bench 
would be of much relevance:  
“27. We do not believe that by virtue of these 
amendments, the legal proposition so laid down by the 
Hon'ble Supreme court regarding consideration of 
business expediency and other relevant factors has been 
diluted in any way. At the same time, we also believe 
that Rule 6DD as amended are not exhaustive enough 
and which visualizes all kinds and nature of business 
expediency in all possible situations and it is for the 
appropriate authority to examine and provide for a:-23-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
mechanism as originally envisaged which provides for 
exceptional or unavoidable circumstances to the 
satisfaction of the Assessing officer whereby genuine 
business expenditure should not suffer disallowance.  
 
28. Further, the Courts have held from time to time that 
the Rules must be interpreted in a manner so as to 
advance and not to frustrate the object of the 
legislature. The intention of the legislature is manifestly 
clear and which is to ITA No. 1065/JP/2016 M/s A Daga 
Royal Arts, Jaipur Vs ITO, Jaipur curb the chances and 
opportunities to use or create black money and to 
ascertain whether the payment was genuine or whether 
it was out of the income from disclosed sources. And 
Section 40A(3) continues to provide that no disallowance 
shall be made in such cases and under such 
circumstances as may be prescribed having regard to 
the nature and extent of the banking facilities available, 
consideration of business expediency and other relevant 
factors. In our view, given that there has been no 
change in the provisions of section 40A(3) in so far as 
consideration of business expediency and other relevant 
factors are concerned, the same continues to be relevant 
factors which needs to be considered and taken into 
account while determining the exceptions to the 
disallowance as contemplated under section 40A(3) of 
the Act so long as the intention of the legislature is not 
violated. We find that our said view find resonance in 
decisions of various authorities, which we have 
discussed below and thus seems fortified by the said 
decisions.”  
 
14. The ratio laid down in the aforesaid judicial precedents 
squarely apply to the facts of the assessee’s case due to 
following reasons:  
(a) The genuineness of the payment made was not 
doubted.  
(b) The recipient of the amount made a pre-condition for 
registration of sale deed only on payment of cash.  
(c) Due to business expediency the assessee had to 
make the payment in cash.  
 
15. The other decisions cited by learned counsel also supports 
this view. Even otherwise also, various judicial precedents have 
been cited before us laying down the ratio that no:-24-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
disallowances under section 40A(3) of the Act can be made 
where seller of agricultural land insisted on payment in cash. 
Thus, applying the legal principles enunciated in the judicial 
precedents cited before us, we hold that the disallowance 
made under section 40A(3) of the Act is unsustainable. 
Accordingly, we delete it.” 
 
16. Coming back to the case laws relied upon by the ld. DR 
and the decision of Hon’ble High Court of Madras in the case of 
Vadugananthan Talkies vs ITO (Supra).  We find that the facts 
before of the Hon’ble High Court of Madras are entirely 
different.  The assessee was an exhibitor of movie in theatres 
has made cash payment inspite of availability of banking 
facility.  Under these facts the Hon’ble Madras High Court 
came to the conclusion that the cash payment was to be 
disallowed in terms of section 40A(3) r.w.r. 6DD of IT Rules, 
1962.  In the present case, the facts are entirely different.  
First of all, the assessee was an agent for distributor and has 
collected money on behalf of the distributor to be paid to 
movie producer.  The money collected by the assessee from 
exhibitor/theater owners neither belongs to assessee and 
payment made by the assessee to various parties on behalf of 
the producer of the movie cannot be considered as 
expenditure of the assessee.  Further, the assessee has also 
made out a case of business expediency in making payment.:-25-:                    ITA. No: 2032/Chny/2019  
 
Therefore, we are of the considered view that case laws relied 
upon by the ld. DR is not applicable to the facts and 
circumstances of the present case and thus, rejected.  
 
17. In this view of the matter and considering facts and 
circumstances of this case, we are of the considered view that 
the provisions of section 40A(3) of the Act, cannot be made 
applicable to cash payment made by the assessee.  Therefore, 
we direct the AO to delete additions made towards 
disallowance of cash payments u/s. 40A(3) of the Act.  
 
18. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed.   
Order pronounced in the court on 13th April, 2023 at Chennai. 
 
Sd/- 
(वी दुगाᭅ राव) 
(V. DURGA RAO) 
᭠याियकसद᭭य/Judicial Member  Sd/- 
(मंजुनाथ. जी) 
(MANJUNATHA. G ) 
लेखासद᭭य/Accountant Member  
चे᳖ई/Chennai, 
ᳰदनांक/Dated:  13th April, 2023  
JPV 
आदेश कᳱ ᮧितिलिप अᮕेिषत/Copy to:    
1. अपीलाथᱮ/Appellant     2. ᮧ᭜यथᱮ/Respondent             3. आयकर आयुᲦ (अपील)/CIT(A)   
4.   आयकर आयुᲦ/CIT      5. िवभागीय ᮧितिनिध/DR          6. गाडᭅ फाईल/GF