IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL  
“I” BENCH, MUMBAI  
 
BEFORE SHRI  PRASHANT MAHARISHI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER AND  
SHRI SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL, JUDICIAL MEMBER  
 
 
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
(Assessment Year : 2012 –13) 
 
Taj TV Limited  
13th Floor, Bakhtawar  
229, Nariman Point  
Mumbai 400 021 PAN – AABCT6542J   
……………. Appellant  
 
v/s 
 
Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax  
International Transaction  
Circle –4(1)(2), Mumbai   
……………. Respondent  
 
 
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
(Assessment Year : 20 12–13) 
 
Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax  
International Transaction  
Circle –4(1)(2), Mumbai   
……………. Appellant  
 
v/s 
 
Taj TV Limited  
13th Floor, Bakhtawar  
229, Nariman Point  
Mumbai 400 021 PAN – AABCT6542J   
……………. Respondent  
 
 
     Assessee by  :   Shri Madhur Agarwal a/w  
      Shri Abbasali Poonawala  
    Revenue by   :   Shri Milind S. Chavan , Sr. AR   
 
Date of Hearing – 10.02.2022  Date of Order – 22.03.2022Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
2 
 O R D E R  
 
PER SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL, J.M.  
 
 The present cross appeals have been filed by either parties challenging 
the order dated 22.08.2019, passed by the Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals) –58, Mumbai  (―the CIT(A)‖ ), under section 250 Income Tax Act, 
1961 ( "the Act" ) for the assessment year 2012 –13. 
 
2. The first issue to be decided in these cross appeals is, whether the 
assessee has a Permanent Establishment ( ―P.E.‖) in India in respect of 
advertis ement  revenue  and distribution revenue received by the assessee. 
In this regard, t he assessee has also raised an alternate plea that if the 
assessee is considered to have a P.E. in India whether any further profit 
need to be attributable to same  if the P.E. has been remunerated at arm's 
length price.  
 
3. The brief facts of the case pertaining to the above  issue as emanating  
from the record are: The assessee is a foreign company registered under 
the Mauriti an Law and is engaged in the business of telecasting its sports 
channel ―Ten Sports‖ . The assessee is considered as ―Resident‖  for tax 
purpose in Mauriti us as it  is Registered in Mauritius. During the relevant 
assessment year, the assessee filed its return of income electronically on 
29.11.2012, declaring total income of Rs.Nil. Along with its return of 
income, the assessee also filed report in Form no.3CEB as per the 
requirement of provisions of section 92E of the Act.Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
3 
 4. The assessee had appointed Taj Television (India) Pvt. Ltd. ( ―Taj 
India‖ ) as an advertising sales agent vide agreement dated 08.05.2002, to 
sell commercial advertisement time to prospe ctive advertiser s and other 
parties in India in connection with business of programming and telecasting 
on ―Ten Sports‖  / ―Ten HD‖  / ―Ten Golf‖  Channels and to collect 
advertisement charges from India exporters and advertisers on behalf of 
the assessee. As  per the agreement, Taj India is entitled to a commission 
@ 10% to 12.5% of the advertisement revenue collected for the assessee.  
 
5. The assessee had also appointed Taj India as the distribut or vide 
agreement dated 01.07.2004, which has been amended fro m tim e–to–time 
to distribute an encrypted advertiser  and/or subscription supported 
television programming service known as ―Ten Sports‖  / ―Ten HD‖  / ―Ten 
Golf‖ to cable systems  solely for exhibition to subscribers in India. The 
assessee does not have any Branch or Office in India and all the telecasting 
has been done from outside India. Thus, the assessee received revenue in 
the form of “Advertisement Spot Sales ” and “Distributi on Income ”. 
 
6. Along with its return of income, the assessee filed notes to the 
computation of income , wherein the assessee  submitt ed that the assessee 
does not have a P.E. in India as the transactions entered into by the 
assessee are on principal –to–principal basis and at arm's length price. The 
assessee further submitted that Taj India has not habitually exercised any 
authority to con clude contract on behalf of the assessee in India.Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
4 
 Accordingly, the assessee in the said note submitted that in view of the 
provisions of Article –7 of India Mauritius Double Taxation Avoidance 
Agreement ( ―DTAA ‖) r/w section 90 (2) of the Act, the income of the 
assessee is not subject to tax in India. It was further submitted that the 
profit, if any, attributable to Taj India has already been taxed in India and, 
therefore, there is no requirement to attribute any further profit.  
 
7. During the course of assessme nt proceedings, the Assessing Officer 
on the basis of past records /assessments  asked the assessee to show 
cause as to why the Indian entity should not be treated as dependent P.E. 
and income to be computed accordingly. In response  thereto , the assessee 
submitted that all the advertisement sales contracts were entered into by 
advertisers and the assessee. Taj India did not have the authority to 
conclude contracts in the name of the assessee. Further, Taj India had 
never exercised the authority to conclude th e contract s and the assessee 
continued to conclude the contract with the advertise rs, despite addendum 
dated 27.04.2006, w.e.f. 01.04.2006, whereby clause 5(a) was replaced in 
the Advertisement Agreement  granting authority to Taj India to conclude 
the contracts. Further in respect of distribution, Taj India entered into 
agreement with distributors or cable operators for distribution of sports 
channel s. Taj India was appointed by the assessee as its distributor  and Taj 
India in turn appointed sub –distributors and cable operators to carry out 
the task deputed by the assessee in better manner. Taj India had 
compensated sub –distributors and cable operators out of its own share ofTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
5 
 25%. Accordingly, the assessee  submitted that Taj India had entered into 
agreement with distributors or cable operators on its own a ccount as 
principal distributor  and not on behalf of the assessee. Thus, in respect of 
distribution revenue arrangement, the relationship between the asse ssee 
and Taj India was on principal –to–principal  basis.  
 
8. The Assessing Officer , vide order dated 22.04.2016, passed under 
section 144C(3) r/w section 143(3) of the Act came to a conclusion that Taj 
India was acting wholly and exclusively  for the assessee as a dependent 
agent and was regularl y selling the advertisement spo ts on behalf of the 
assessee. Taj India was also functionally and economically dependent on 
the assessee and thus, is a dependent agent of the assessee within the 
meaning of Article –5 of I ndia Mauritius DTAA. The Assessing Officer further 
held that as Taj India had authority to conclude contracts in the name of 
the assessee and also has exercise d this authority habitually  and 
repeatedly in India, the assessee ha s a P.E. in India within the meaning of 
Article –5(4)(i) of the India Mauritius DTAA. Further, in respect of 
distribution revenue, the Assessing Officer held that Taj India has the 
exclusive right to represent the assessee before the distribution system / 
cable operators and negotiate  and procure cable distribution license 
agreement for the services , for which Taj India  was authorized by the 
assessee.  Further, the distribution revenue collected by Taj India shall be  
shared in the ratio of 86:14 by the assessee and Taj India respectively.  
Accordingly, the Assessing Of ficer held that the assessee has  a P.E. in IndiaTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
6 
 and as such the subscription revenue is taxable on net basis in the hands 
of the assessee. Thus, the Assessing Officer  held that in respect of both the 
contracts, t he assessee has a  dependent agent P.E. in India  in the form of 
Taj India. The Assessing Officer also did not agree with the submissions of 
the assessee that if the payment to the agent is made on arm's length then 
no further profit needs to be attributed. As a result, the Assessing Officer 
attributed 75% of the assessable profits arising from Indian operations to 
the functions performed by dependent agent P.E. for the purpose of 
taxation in India , following the approach adopted by the Revenue in earlier 
assessment years.  
 
9. In appeal, the CIT(A) following the order passed by the Co –ordinate 
Bench of Tribunal in assessee‟s own case for the assessment year s 2006–
07 to 2011–12, inter -alia, held that the assessee does not have any P.E. in 
India with respect to the distribution function . Being aggrieved  by the order 
passed by the CIT(A) , both the assessee and the Revenue are in appeal 
before us.  While the assessee is challenging the conclusion of CIT(A) tha t 
the assessee has a P.E. in India in respect of advertisement revenue. On 
the other hand, Revenue , inter -alia, is aggrieved with the CIT(A)‟s finding 
on P.E. with respect to the distribution revenue . 
 
10. During the course of hearing, Shri Madhur Agarwal, learned Counsel 
appearing for the assessee submitted that the issue of existence of 
assessee‟s P.E. in India in respect of distribution income has been decidedTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
7 
 in favour of the assessee by various decision s of the Tribunal in assessee‟s 
own case for preceding assessment years. The learned Counsel fairly 
submitted that the issue of existence of assessee‟s P.E. with respect to 
advertisement revenue  was left upon by the Tribunal in preceding 
assessment years a nd only with respect to distribution revenue, the 
assessee was held not to have a P.E. in India. The learned Counsel further 
submitted that the arm's length analysis conducted by the assessee in 
respect of advertisement revenue was also accepted by the Transfer Pricing 
Officer  and thus no further profit needs to be attributed to the alleged P.E.  
of assessee in India.  
11. On the other hand, Shri Milind S. Chavan, the learned Departmental 
Representative  (―learned D.R.‖ ) by referring to the addendum dated 
27.04.20 06, to Advertisement Sales Agency Agreement submitted that Taj 
India had the right and authority to assume or create an obligation of any 
kind in the name of and on behalf of the assessee and thus Taj India 
constitutes dependent agent P.E. of the assessee in India within the 
meaning of Article 5 (4) of the India Mauritius DTAA. Further, by referring 
to addendum dated 28.12.2007  to distribution agreement, the  learned 
D.R. submitted that Taj India had the authority to enter agreement with 
third parties on behalf of the assessee and thus constitutes dependent 
agent P.E. in India of the assessee in terms of the aforesaid provisions of 
India Mauritius DTAA.Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
8 
 12. We have considered the rival submissions  and perused the material 
available on record.   Under the Distri bution Agreement dated 20.10.2005 , 
Taj India was granted exclusive distribution rights with respect to 
distribution of encrypted advertiser  and/or subscription supported 
television programming service known as ―Ten Sports‖  to cable systems  
solely for exhib ition to subscribers in India  either  directly or through one or 
more Distributors . Accordingly, Taj India in turn appointed sub –distributors 
and cable operators . The clause 1.3 of the aforesaid Distribution 
Agreement dated 20.10.2005 reads as under:  
 
“1.3  Taj India shall have the distribution rights for distribution of the 
Service in India to Distributor and Permitted Systems and negotiate and 
procure cable distribution license Agreements with Permitted Systems for 
the Service consistent with the terms thereof. Taj India shall enter into 
Agreements with third parties on its own behalf and in its own name. Upon 
Taj’s request, Taj India shall inform Taj in advance and regularly  update Taj 
regarding the negotiations of any proposed License Agreements with 
Permitted Systems .” 
 
 
Thus the clause as it existed in the aforesaid Distribution Agreement 
specifically provided that all the agreements entered into by Taj India with 
third parties shall be on its own behalf and in its own name. The aforesaid 
clause of the Distribution Agreement was replaced by the Addendum dated 
28.12.2007  and the new clause 1.3 reads as under:  
  
“1.3 Taj -India shall have the distribution rights for distribution of the 
Service in India to Distributor and Permitted Systems and negotiate and 
procure cable distribution license Agreements with Permitted Systems for 
the Service consistent  with the terms thereof. Taj -India shall have the 
authority to enter into Agreements with third parties on behalf of the Taj. 
Upon Taj’s request, Taj –India shal l inform Taj in advance and regularlyTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
9 
 update Taj regarding the negotiations of any proposed License Agreements 
with Permitted Systems. ” 
  
13. The Revenue has placed reliance on this clause , as replaced by the 
Addendum dated 28.12.2007 , to allege  that Taj India constitutes 
dependent agent P.E. of the assessee in India. In order to decide the issue 
whether the assessee has a P.E. in India with respect to the Distribution 
revenue  under India Mauritius DTAA , it is relevant to analyse the provisions 
of Article 5(4) of the DTAA, which reads as under:  
 
“4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this article, 
a person acting in a Contracting State for or on behalf of an enterprise of 
the other Contracting State [other than an agent of  an independent status 
to whom the provisions of paragraph (5) apply] shall be deemed to be a 
permanent establishment of that enterprise in the first -mentioned State if :  
 
(i) he has and habitually exercises in that first -mentioned State, an 
authority to c onclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless his 
activities are limited to the purchase of goods or merchandise for the 
enterprise ; or  
 
(ii)  he habitually maintains in that first -mentioned State a stock of 
goods or merchandise belonging to the  enterprise from which he regularly 
fulfils orders on behalf of the enterprise. ”  
 
 
14. As per the provisions of Article 5(4 )(i) of the DTAA, it is only when 
the person in a Contracting State has and habitually exercises the authority 
to conclude contracts in the name of the other  enterprise, such person shall 
be deemed to be the P.E. of the other  enterprise. Thus in order to invoke 
the provisions of Article 5(4) (i) of the DTAA, both the conditions i.e. ( a) 
person has concluded the contract and ( b) person habitually exercise the 
authority to conclude the contract, need to be satisfied . However, i n the 
present case, the Revenue , except merely  referring to the aforesaid clauseTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
10 
 of the Addendum , has neither established nor brought anything on record, 
either at the assessment stage or before us, that Taj India had habitually 
exercise d the authority to conclude the contract on behalf of the assessee. 
Thus, the Revenue has failed to discharge the burden casted on it to prove 
that the twin conditions provided in Article 5(4) (i) of the DTAA are satisfied 
in the facts of the present case. As held by the Special Bench of the 
Tribunal in the case of Motorola Inc. v. Dy. CIT: [2005] 95 ITD 269 that 
DTAA is only an alternative tax regi me and not an exemption regime  and 
therefore, the burden is first on the Revenue to show that the assessee had 
a taxable income under the DTAA, and then the burden is on the assessee 
to show that its income is exempt under DTAA . Similarly, was held by the 
Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in ITO v. Right Florists (P) Ltd. [2013] 
143 ITD 445 (Kol -Trib.).  In view of the above, Taj India cannot be held to 
be dependent agent P.E. of the assessee in India under Article  5(4)(i) of 
the India Mauritius DTAA with respect to the distribution revenue . 
Accordingly, to this extent order passed by the CIT(A) is upheld and the 
grounds raised by the Revenue are dismissed.  
 
15. Insofar as the appeal of the assessee against the conclusion  of 
CIT(A) that the assessee had  a P.E. in India in r espect of advertisement 
revenue, it is pertinent to note that Revenue has not been denied that Taj 
India was remunerated at arm‟s length price with respect to advertisement 
revenue and transfer pricing analysi s was also accepted by the Transfer 
Pricing Officer vide order dated 28.12.2015 passed under section 92CA(3)Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
11 
 of the Act.  We find that on similar  issue, the Co –ordinate Bench of the 
Tribunal in assessee‟s own case vide order dated 23.12 .2016, passed in Taj 
TV Ltd.  v/s ADIT , [2017] 162 ITD 674 , for assessment year s  2006-07 to 
2008-09, observ ed as under : 
 
“9………..Thus, if admittedly Taj India is being remunerated at arm's length, 
then, no further income/profit can be said to be attributable to the assessee 
in India from PE. It is an undisputed fact that the TPO has accepted the 
transaction between the assessee and Taj India at an arm's length price. 
Hence, respectfully following the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court 
and followed by the Hon'ble jurisdictio nal High Court, we also hold that if 
the arm's length price of the transaction has been accepted, between the 
assessee and Taj India, then nothing further should be attributable to the 
assessee which is to be taxed in India. Thus, on this reasoning we allo w the 
assessee's ground No.1 .”  
 
The legal principle followed by the Co -ordinate Bench of Tribunal is equally 
applicable to the facts of the present case.  Thus, r espectfully following the 
decision of the Co –ordinate Bench rendered in assessee‟s own case ci ted 
supra, we accept the alternative plea of the assessee and held that as Taj 
India was remunerated at arm‟s length price in respect of advertisement 
revenue , no further profit needs to be attributed to same for the purpose of 
taxation in India. Further,  as regards  the issue of  existence of  P.E. with 
respect to advertisement revenue , same is left open.  Accordingly  to this 
extent , order passed by the CIT(A) is set aside and addition made by 
Assessing Officer with respect to advertisement revenue  is directed to be 
deleted. As a result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed  on the 
alternative plea .Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
12 
 16. The next issue to be decided in Revenue‟s appeal is regarding 
disallowance of transponder fees and uplinking charges under section 
40(a)(i) of th e Act.  
 
17. The brief facts of the case pertaining to this issue as emanating from 
the record are: The assessee had made majority of payments from outside 
India to various non –residents. During the relevant assessment year, the 
assessee paid transponder fees o f U.S. dollar 379,369 and uplinking 
charges of U.S. dollar 1,109,721. The aforesaid payments were made to an 
entity i.e. Intelsat who was a tax resident of USA and was engaged in the 
business of providing transponders facilities to various entities in the world. 
Intelsat was not carrying any business activities in India and also did not 
have any business connection in India as per section 9(1)(i) of the Act. 
Further, the transponder was also placed outside India. The payments were 
made to Intelsat for provi ding facilities of transponder for telecasting 
channels of the assessee in various countries including India. The assessee 
claimed that since all the activities of transponder service providers were 
happened to be outside India, the source  of income is sit uated outside 
India and no part of the income can be deemed to have been received by 
Intelsat in India under the provisions of the Act. Further, these items were 
also claimed to be not covered within the definition of Royalty provided in 
Article –12 of the India USA DTAA. The Assessing Officer  vide order dated 
22.11.2016, did not agree with the submissions of the assessee in view of 
Explanation –4, 5 and 6, inserted in section 9(1)(vi)  with retrospectiveTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
13 
 effect from 01.06.1976. The Assessing Officer  held that  the payment made 
by the assessee for satellite (uplinking and down linking) would qualify as 
„process ‟ within the meaning of Explanation –6 to the aforesaid section. 
Accordingly, the Assessing Officer held that the payments made by the 
assessee are taxable  as Royalty under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. Further, 
the Assessing Officer held that the payment of uplinking and transponder 
fees is also taxable in India as Royalty as per Article –12 r/w Article –3(2) of 
India USA DTAA. Accordingly, the Assessing Offic er disallowed the 
aforesaid payment s under section 40(a)(i) of the Act for non –deduction of 
TDS. 
 
18. In appeal, the CIT(A) following the decision of the Co –ordinate Bench 
of the Tribunal rendered in assessee‟s own case for the assessment year s 
2006–07 to 2011–12, inter-alia, deleted the addition made by the 
Assessing Officer  in respect of transponder fees and uplinking charges. 
Being aggrieved, the Revenue is in appeal before us.  
 
19. During the course of hearing, the learned D.R. by referring to Article –
3(2) of India USA DTAA submitted that the law in force in India should be 
applied and the impugned payments should be treated as royalty within the 
meaning of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act r/w Article 12 and Article –3(2) of 
India USA DTAA.  The learned D.R. in  support of his submissions placed 
reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in CIT v/s 
Siemens Aktiongesellschaft , 177 Taxman 81.Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
14 
  
20. On the other hand, the learned Counsel submitted that the issue in 
Revenue‟s appeal has been decided  in favour of the assessee by various 
decisions of the Co –ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in assessee‟s own case .  
 
21. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the material 
available on record. We find that on identical issue, the Co –ordinate Bench 
of the Tribunal in assessee‟s own case vide order dated 05.07.2016, passed 
in ADIT v/s Taj TV Ltd., [2016] 161 ITD 339, for assessment year s 2003–
04 to 200 5–06, dismissed the Revenue‟s appeal by observing as under: – 
 
―19. First of all, let us examine the definition of "royalty" as been defined 
under Article 12 of the Indo -US-DTAA, which has been defined in the 
following manner:  
 
'3. The term "royalties" as u sed in this Article means:  
 
(a) payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of or the 
right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic, or scientific work, including 
cinematograph films or work on film, tape or other means of reproducti on 
for use in connection with radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade 
mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for information 
concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience, including gains 
derived from the aliena tion of any such right or property which are 
contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition thereof; and  
 
(b) payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of or the 
right to use, any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment, other  than 
payments derived by an enterprise described in paragraph 1 of Article 8 
(Shipping and Air Transport) from activities described in paragraph 2(c) or 3 
of Article 8.'  
 
The article gives exhaustive definition of the term 'royalty' and therefore, 
the definition and scope of 'royalty' is to be seen from the Article alone and 
no definition under the domestic Act or law is required to be considered or 
seen or any amendment ma de in such definition whether retrospective or 
prospective which can be read in a manner so as to extend any operation to 
the terms as defined or understood in the Treaty. The Legislature or 
Parliament while carrying out amendment to interpret or define a given 
provision under the Domestic Law of the country cannot supersede or 
control the meaning of the word which has been expressly defined in a 
Treaty negotiated between executives of two sovereign nations. TheTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
15 
 payment of transponder charges to PanAmSat an d uplinking charges cannot 
be treated as a consideration for 'use' or 'right to use' any copyright of 
various terms used in para 3(a) like copyright of a literary, artistic, or 
scientific work, including cinematograph films or work on film, tape or other 
means of reproduction for use in connection with radio or television 
broadcasting or in any manner relates to any patent or trademark, design, 
secret formula or process. It is also not use or right to use any industrial, 
commercial, or scientific  equipment.  There is no such kind of right to use 
which is given by  Pan Am Sat to assessee. Thus, the said payment does not 
fall within the ambit of the terms used in para 3 of Article 12. So far  as the 
reading of amended definition of 'royalty' as given in  section 9 (1)(vi) into 
treaty, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in its latest  judgment in the case of New 
Skies Satellite BV (supra), wherein  it has considered Hon'ble Madras High 
Court decision in the case  of Verizon Communications Singapore Pte Ltd. 
(supra) also, have  discussed the issue threadbare and came to the 
conclusion in the  following manner: — 
 
"60. Consequently, since we have held that the Finance Act,  2012 will not 
affect Article 12 of the DTAAs, it would follow  that the first determinative 
interpretation given to  the word  "royalty" in Asia Satellite, supra note 1, 
when the definitions  were in fact pari materia (in the absence of any 
contouring  explanations), will continue to hold the filed for the purpose  of 
assessment years preceding the Finance Act, 2012 and in  all cases which 
involve a Double Tax Avoidance Agreement,  unless the said DTAAs are 
amended jointly by both partners  to incorporate income from data 
transmission services as  partaking of the nature of royalty, or amend the 
definition in a  manner so that su ch income automatically becomes royalty. It  
is reiterated that the Court has not returned a finding on  whether the 
amendment is in fact retrospective and  applicable to cases preceding the 
Finance Act of 2012 where  there exists no Double Tax Avoidance 
Agreement."  
 
The aforesaid decision takes care of all the arguments relied  upon by the ld. 
DR including that of the Verizon Communications  Singapore Pte Ltd's. The 
Hon'ble High Court has specifically  clarified as to why the said decision  of 
Madras High Cou rt cannot  be applied in such cases after observing as 
under: — 
 
"31. In a judgment by the Madras High Court in Verizon  Communications 
Singapore Pte Ltd. v. The Income Tax  Officer, International Taxation I, 
[2014] 361 ITR 575, the  Court held the Explanations  to be applicable to not 
only the  domestic definition but also carried them to influence the  meaning 
of royalty under Article 12. Notably, in both cases,  the clarificatory nature of 
the amendment was not  questioned, but was instead applied squarely to 
assessment  years predating the amendment. The crucial difference  between 
the judgments however lies in the application of the  amendments to the 
DTAA. While TV Today, supra note 22  recognizes that the question will have 
to be decided and the  submission argued, Verizon, supra note 23 cites no 
reason for  the extension  of the amendments to the DTAA. ‖ 
 
Thus, respectfully following the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble  Delhi High 
Court, we hold that, the definition of royalty as  enlarged by Finance Act, 
2012 with retrospective effect will not  have an y affect in Article 12 of DTAA.Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
16 
  
20. Otherwise also, now it is quite trite position that, at the time  of making 
the payment when there is no amendment in the  statute, then assessee 
cannot be expected to withhold the tax, especially when under the old 
provision or by virtue of any  judicial precedent such payment does not fall 
or has been held to  be not falling within the ambit and scope of 'royalty'. In 
these  kinds of cases there were various decisions including that o f the 
Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Set Satellite  (Singapore) Pte Ltd. 
that payment made to the non -resident  outside India for rendering the 
services of equipment outside  India is not taxable in India. Hon'ble Delhi 
High Court in the case  of Asi a Satellite Telecommunications Co. Ltd. v. DIT 
[2011] 332  ITR 340/197 Taxman 263/9 taxmann.com 168 later on 
reiterated  that there is no royalty payment in such cases under the 
domestic  law, that is, section 9(1)(vi), prior to amendment. Thus judicial  
prece dents supported the case of the assessee. Here, the maxim  of "lex 
non cogit ad impossplia, that is, the law of the possibly  compelling a person 
to do something which is impossible, that is,  when there is no provision for 
taxing an amount in India then  how it can be expected that a tax should be 
deducted on such a  payment. This view has been upheld by in catena of 
decisions  including the ITAT Mumbai Benches in the case of Channel Guide  
India Ltd (supra) wherein, it has been held that, assessee cannot  held to  be 
liable for deducting TDS in view of the retrospective  amendment which has 
come at a much later date. Thus, we hold  that assessee was not liable to 
deduct TDS at the time of making  the payments. Accordingly, disallowance 
under section 40(a)(i)  could not  have been made by the AO and the order 
of the CIT(A)  is affirmed. Ground No.2(a) & (b) raised by the revenue are  
dismissed.‖  
 
 
22. As the facts and circumstances of the present case are similar to the 
earlier assessment years , wherein transponder fees and uplinking charges 
were paid by the assessee  and India USA DTAA provisions were considered , 
respectfully following the decision of the Co –ordinate Bench rendered in 
assessee‟s own case cited supra, we hold that the aforesaid pa yments are 
not in the nature of Royalty within the meaning of Article –12 of the India 
USA DTAA.  
 
23. Further, as regards the reliance placed by learned D.R. on the 
decision of Hon‟ble Jurisdictional High Court in Siemens AktiongesellschaftTaj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
17 
 (supra) , it is pert inent to note that  in ACIT v. Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. 
[2019] 111 taxmann.com 371, another Co -ordinate Bench of the Tribunal 
noted the difference in wordings of DTAA dealt  with in Siemens 
Aktiongesellschaft (supra)  and observed as under:  
 
―17. So far as our purposes are concerned, it is sufficient to take note of 
the fact that the provisions of Article 3(2) of Indo Singaporean tax treaty 
are differently worded vis -à-vis the old Indo German tax treaty that Hon'ble 
jurisdictional High Court were dealing with in Siemens Aktiongesellschaft's  
case ( supra ) and the crucial words "laws in force" o n which so much 
emphasis was placed in judicial analysis by Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court 
do not find place in this treaty. Strictly speaking, therefore, t he judicial 
sanction for the theory of ambulatory interpretation, for the purpose of 
article 3(2), does not, therefore, necessarily extend to Indo Singaporean 
tax treaty that we are concerned with .‖   
 
24. The provisions of Article 3(2) of India US DTAA are si milar to India 
Singapore DTAA , which were  considered by Co -ordinate Bench of the 
Tribunal in aforesaid decision. Accordingly, respectfully following the 
judicial precedence in assessee‟s own case, the order passed by the CIT(A) , 
deleting the disallowance m ade by the Assessing Officer under section 
40(a)(i) of the Act , is affirmed.  Consequently, the grounds raised by the 
Revenue are dismissed.  
 
25. In the result, the appeal by the assessee is allowed, while the appeal 
by the Revenue is dismissed  in terms of our aforesaid findings .  
Order pronounced in the open court on 22.03.2022 
 
Sd/- 
PRASHANT MAHARISHI  
ACCOUNTANT MEMBER   
 
 
   Sd/- 
SANDEEP SINGH KARHAIL  
JUDICIAL MEMBER  
MUMBAI,   DATED:    22.03.2022Taj TV Limited  
ITA No. 6588/Mum./2019  
ITA No. 6741/Mum./2019  
 
 
18 
  
Copy of the order forwarded to : 
 
(1) The Assessee;  
(2) The Revenue;  
(3) The CIT(A);  
(4) The CIT,  Mumbai City concerned;  
(5) The DR, ITAT, Mumbai;  
(6) Guard file . 
      True Copy  
                   By Order  
Pradeep J. Chowdhury  
Sr. Private Secretary  
 
         Assistant Registrar  
           ITAT, Mumbai