IN THE  INCOME  TAX  APPELLATE  TRIBUNAL ,  ‘E‘ BENCH 
MUMBAI  
 
 
BEFORE : SHRI  M.BALAGANESH, A CCOUNTANT MEMBER  
      & 
       SHRI  AMARJIT SINGH , JUDICIAL MEMBER  
     
ITA No. 1718 /Mum/ 2020 
(Assessment Year : 2015 -16) 
M/s. Tata AIG General 
Insurance Company Limit ed 
15th Floor, Tower -A 
Peninsula Business Park  
G.K. Marg, Lower Parel  
Mumbai – 400 013  Vs. Deputy Commissioner of 
Income Tax -8(3)(1),  
Mumbai  
PAN/GIR No. AABCT3518Q  
(Appellant ) .. (Respondent ) 
 
Assessee by  Shri Madhur Aggarwal  
Revenue by    Shri Mehul Ja in 
Date of Hearing        18/02/2022 
Date of Pronouncement         25/04 /202 2 
  
आदेश  / O R D E R  
 
PER M. BALAGANESH (A.M) : 
 
 
  This appeal in ITA No. 1718/Mum/2020  for A.Y. 2015-16 arises out 
of the order by the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) -15, 
Mumbai in appeal No. CIT(A) -15, Mumbai/10628/2019 -20 dated 
28/02/2020 (ld. CIT(A) in short) against the order of assessment passed 
u/s.143(3)  of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as Act) 
dated 31/12/2018  by the ld. Dy. Commissioner of In come Tax -8(3)(1), 
Mumbai  (hereinafter referred to as ld. AO).ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 2 
2.  The ground Nos. 1 & 2 raised by the assessee are general in nature 
and does not require any specific adjudication. It would be relevant to 
mention here that the assessee being a general ins urance company is 
bound to prepare the accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
first schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as 
„Act‟). The computation of income of insurance company would be 
prepared  on these accounts subje ct to the adjustments that are provided 
in Rule 2 and Rule 5 of the first schedule of the Act. In effect as per Rule 
5 of the first schedule to the Act, the assessee‟s income would be profits  
as disclosed in the profit and loss account prepared as per the Insurance 
Act, 1938 excluding the amounts disallowable u/s.  30 to 43B of the 
Income Tax Act. This has been duly followed by the assessee in the 
instant case.  
 
3. The ground Nos. 3 & 4 raised by the assessee are challenging the 
disallowance of re-insurance premium paid to non -resident reinsurers , 
who do not have a place of business / branch in India , u/s.37(1) of the 
Act. The alternative disallowance that was made by the ld. AO in this 
regard was u/s.40(a)(i) of the Act for payments made without deduction 
of tax at source.  
 
3.1. We have heard rival submissions and perused the materials 
available on record. We find that assessee is in the business of general 
insurance. During the year, the assessee paid an amount of 
Rs.681,13,22,176/ - to non -resident companie s (foreign reinsurers)  as 
reinsurance premium. The assessee had not withheld tax o n these 
outward remittances except  one payment of Rs.45,55,87,765 /- made to 
Swiss Reinsurance Co. Ltd., The ld. AO observed that the remaining 
reinsurance premium paid in the  sum of Rs.635,57,94,411/ - was liable forITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 3 
disallowance u/s.37 of the Act in view of the provisions contained in 
Section 101A r.w.s. 2(9) of the Insurance Act, 1938. Additionally, the ld. 
AO, on without prejudice basis , also observed that since the said pay ment 
of Rs.635,57,94,411/ - was made without deduction of tax at source, the 
same would be liable for disallowance u/s.40(a)(i) of the Act also. When 
assessee was show -caused in this regard, the assessee gave a detailed 
explanation before the ld. AO which w as not considered. Accordingly, the 
ld. AO proceeded to make disallowance of reinsurance premium of 
Rs.635,57,94,411/ - u/s.37( 1) and alternatively also stated that the same 
would be liable for disallowance u/s.40(a)(i) of the Act.  
 
3.2. The ld. CIT(A) con sidering the fact that there was a n amendment in 
Section 2(9) of the Insurance Act, 1938 w.e.f. 26/12/2014  held that the 
assessee  shall be allowed deduction on payments made prior to 
26/12/2014 and payments made on or after 26/12/2014 shall be covered 
within the ambit of Explanation  1 to Section 37 of the Income Tax Act 
liable for disallowance thereon. The ld. CIT(A) however, said that since 
the entire payment was made without deduction of tax at source, the ld. 
AO was justified in alternatively making disa llowance u/s.40(a)(i) of the 
Act.  
 
3.3. We find that assessee is an independent insurance company 
registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India  
(IRDA) as provided in Section 3(2A) of the Insurance Act, 1938. It is not 
in dispute  that the assessee has paid reinsurance premium to non -
resident insurance companies. It is not in dispute that the said non -
resident reinsurance companies do not have any branch or any place of 
business in India. The case of the Revenue is that the payment s made to 
non-resident reinsurance companies were in violation of provisions ofITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 4 
Insurance Act 1938 and accordingly , not allowable as deduction in terms 
of Explanation -1 to Section 37 of the Act. Hence, the two points that are 
to be decided in this appeal a re as under: - 
 
a) Whether the re -insurance premium paid to non -resident 
reinsurance companies was in violation of provisions of the 
Insurance Act and consequently whether the provisions of 
Explanation to Section 37(1) of the Act after 26/12/2 014 could be 
brought into force ?  
b) Whether reinsurance payment made would be in violation of 
provisions  of Section 40(a)(i) of the Act ?  
 
3.4. We find that the ld. AO had heavily placed reliance on the decision of 
the Co -ordinate Bench of Chennai Tribunal in the case of DCI T vs. 
Cholamandalam M S General Insurance Co. Ltd  where the provisions of 
Section 2(9 ) r.w.s. 101A(7) of the Insurance Act, 1938 were dealt with 
and the issue in dispute was decided against the assessee. In this regard, 
it would be relevant to reproduce the  provisions of Section 2(9) and 
Section 101A of the Insurance Act, 1938 as under: - 
 
 (9) "Insurer" means - 
(a) any individual or unincorporated body of individuals or body corporate 
incorporated under the law  of any country other than India, carrying on 
insurance business not being a person specified in sub -clause  (c)of this clause 
which - 
 
(i)  carries on that business in India, or  
 
(ii) has his or its principal place of business  or is domiciled in  India, or  
 
 (iii) with the o bject of obtaining insurance bus iness, employs a representative, 
or maintains a place of business in India;  
 
(b) any body corporate [not being a person specified in sub -clause (c) of this 
clause] carrying on the business of insurance, which is a body corporate 
incorporated under any law for the time being in force in India, or stands to anyITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 5 
such body corporate in the relation of a subsidiary company within the meaning 
of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913), as defined by sub -section (2) of 
section 2 of that Act, and  
 
(c) any perso n who in India has a standing contract with underwriters who are 
members of the Society of Lloyd’s whereby such person is authorised within the 
terms of such contract to issue protection notes, cover notes, or other 
documents granting insurance cover to ot hers on behalf of the underwriters.  
 
But does not include a principal agent’ chief agent, special agent’ or an 
insurance agent or a provident society as defined in Part III;  
 
 
 
PART  IV-A 
RE-INSURANCE  
Re-insurance with Indian reinsurers  
101A. (1) Every insu rer shall re insure with Indian rc -insurers such percentage 
of the sum assured on each policy as may be specified by the Authority with the 
previous approval of the Central Government under sub -section (2).  
 
(2) For the purposes of sub -section (1), the Aut hority may, by notification in the 
official Gazette, — 
 
(a)  specify the percentage of the sum assured on each policy to be reinsured 
and  different percentages may be specified for different classes of insurance:  
 
Provided that no percentage so specified s hall exceed thirty per cent of the sum 
assured on such policy; and  
 
(b)  also specify the proportions in which the said percentage shall be allocated 
among   the Indian re -insurers.  
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1), an insurer car rying 
on fire -insurance business in India may, in lieu of re -insuring the percentage 
specified under sub -section (2) of the sum assured on each policy in respect of 
such business, re -insure with Indian re -insurers such amount out of the first 
surplus in re spect of that business as he thinks fit, so however that the 
aggregate amount of the premiums payable by him on such re -insurance in any 
year is not less than the said percentage of the premium income (without taking 
into account premiums on re -insurance c eded or accepted) in respect of such 
business during that year   
 
Explanation - For the purposes of this -section. the year 1961 shall be deemed to 
mean the period from the 1st April to the 31st December of that year.  
 
(4) A notification under subsection (2) may also specify the terms and 
conditions in respect of any business of re -insurance required to be transacted 
under this section and such terms and conditions shall be binding on Indian re -
insurers and other insurers.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 6 
(5) No notification under sub -section  (2) shall be issued except after 
consultation with the Advisory Committee constituted under Section 101B.  
 
(6) Every notification issued under this section shall be laid before each House 
of Parliament, as soon as  may be, after it is made.  
 
(7) For the re moval of doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in subsection 
(I) shall be const rued as  preventing an insurer from reinsuring with any Indian 
re-insurer or other insurer the entire sum assured on any  policy or any portion 
thereof in excess of the perce ntage specified under  sub-section (2). ‖ 
 
 
3.5. Further w.e.f. 26/12/2014, Insurance Laws (Amendment ) Act, 2015 
was brought into force wherein the erstwhile Section 2(9) of the 
Insurance Act, 1938 was amended. The amended definition of “insurer” 
as per Sect ion 2(9) of the Insurance Act is as under: - 
(9) "insurer" means —  
(a) an Indian Insurance Company, or  
(b) a statutory body established by an Act of Parliament to carry on 
insurance business, or  
 (c) an insurance co -operative society, or  
 
(d) a foreign co mpany engaged in re -insurance business through a branch 
established in India.  
 
Explanation. —For the purposes of this sub -clause, the expression "foreign 
company" shall mean a company or body established or incorporated under a 
law of any country outside I ndia and includes Lloyd's established under the 
Lloyd's Act, 1871 (United Kingdom) or any of its Members; ‖ 
 
3.6. From the amended definition of term “insurer” u/s.2(9) of the 
Insurance Act w.e.f. 26/12/2014, it could be seen that a foreign company 
engaged in reinsurance business through a branch established in India 
would also fall within the definition of “insurer”. Prior to 26/12/2014 this 
amended definition was not in force and hence, not applicable. That‟s 
why the ld. CIT(A) had granted relief to the as sessee by holding that any 
payment of reinsurance premium made to non -resident reinsurers would 
not be in violation of provisions of Insurance Act and consequently the 
provisions of Explanation -1 to Section 37 of the Income Tax Act could not 
be applied the reon. Against this finding, the Revenue is not in appealITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 7 
before us and hence, this particular finding had attained finality. Hence, 
what is required for us to be adjudicated is only whether the payments 
made on or after 26/12/2014 would be in violation of provisions of 
Insurance Act and consequently liable for disallowance in terms of 
Explanation 1 to Section 37 of the Income Tax Act. As stated earlier, 
undisputedly, reinsurers to whom assessee had made payment, does not 
have any place of business or branch  in India. So, even after 26/12/2014, 
the amended definition of Section 2(9) of the Insurance Act could not be 
made applicable to the facts of the instant case.  
 
3.7. The provisions of Section 101A of Insurance Act  has already been 
reproduced hereinabove.  The relevant provision  which is applicable 
thereon to the facts of the instant case is Section 101A(7). For the sake of 
convenience, the Section 101A(7) of the Insurance Act alone is 
reproduced hereunder: - 
 
101A(7) : 
 
―For the removal of doubts, it is here by declared that nothing in sub -section (1) 
shall be construed as preventing an insurer from re -insuring with any Indian re -
insurer or other insurer the entire sum assured on any policy or any portion 
thereof in excess of the percentage specified under sub -section (2). ‖ 
 
3.8. From the aforesaid provision, the expression “other insurer”  assumes 
significance . Whether the aforesaid expression “other insurer” would 
include foreign re -insurers?  If the answer is in the affirmative, then the 
assessee has not viola ted any provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 and 
consequently there cannot be any disallowance in terms of Explanation 1 
to Section 37(1) of the Income Tax Act. If the answer is in the negative, 
then the assessee had violated the provisions of Insurance A ct and 
consequently would be liable for disallowance in terms of Explanation 1 to 
Section 37 of the Income Tax Act.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 8 
 
3.9. As stated earlier, the provisions of Insurance Act i.e. Section 2(9) and 
Section 101A(7) were subject matter of adjudication by the Ch ennai 
Tribunal in the case of Cholamandalam M S General Insurance Co. Ltd  
referred to supra which was heavily relied upon by the ld. AO. The 
relevant operative portion of the said judgement as reproduced in the 
order of the ld. CIT(A) is reproduced herein f or the sake o f convenience: - 
 
― The question now arises for consideration is when the provisions of Section 2(9) 
of the Insurance Act, 1938 is applicable with effect from 26.12.2014, why it is not 
applicable for earlier assessment years? This Tribunal is o f the considered opinion 
that the provisions of Section 2(9) of the Insurance Act, 1938 is applicable as it 
stood at relevant point of time even for earlier assessment years.  
 
The word "other insurer" provided in Section 101A(7) of the Insurance Act, 1938  
enables the Indian insurers for re -insuring over and above the percentage fixed by 
the Insurance Regulatory And Development Authority of India. The re -insurance 
may be either with Indian re -insurer or other insurer. By taking advantage of the 
term "other insurer", now the assessee claims that they can re -insure with non -
resident re -insurance company ignoring the provisions of Indian Insurance Act, 
1938. This Tribunal is of the considered opinion that there is no merit in the 
contention of the Ld. Sr. couns el for the assessee. The term "other insurer" as 
provided in Section 101A(7) of the Insurance Act, 1938 is only the insurer which 
was defined in Section 2(9) of the Insurance Act, 1938. There cannot be any 
extended meaning which can be given to the term "o ther insurer". The definition 
given in Section 2(9) of Insurance Act, 1938 is not inclusive one. It is an 
exhaustive one. Therefore, an Indian insurer cannot have any re -insurance 
arrangement with re -insurance company other than the insurer as defined / 
referred in Section 2(9) of Insurance Act, 1938.  
 
3.10. This was the strong contention of the Revenue to deny the 
disallowance of reinsurance premium payment made to non -resident 
reinsurers in the instant case. We find that the aforesaid finding of 
Chennai T ribunal has been reversed by the Hon‟ble Madras High Court in 
the case of Cholamandalam M S General Insurance Co. Ltd  vs. DCIT 
reported in 102 taxmann.com 292 dated 12/12/2018. It would be relevant 
to reproduce the questions raised before the Hon‟ble Madras  High Court 
as under: -ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 9 
―2.The common legal issue arising in these appeals relates to disallowance of 
reinsurance premium ceded to non -resident reinsurers. The assessees have 
raised the following substantial questions of law for consideration: - 
―(i) Whether  the ITAT erred in deciding the validity of reinsurance ceded to 
the non -resident reinsurers when such issue was not even raised before it by 
either the Department or the Appellant?  
 
(ii) Whether the ITAT erred in holding that the IRDA (General Insurance – 
Reinsurance) Regulation, 2000 is contrary to  section 101A  of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 when it does not have the power to decide the validity of 
regulations made by the IRDA?  
 
(iii) Whether the ITAT erred  in holding that reinsurance payments to non -
residents are prohibited by law and therefore hit by Explanation 1 to  section 
37 of the Act?  
 
(iv) Whether the ITAT   erred in failing to follow co -ordinate b ench decisions 
on the very question of reinsurance payments to non -residents when it ought 
to have referred the matter to a larger bench if it disagreed with such 
judgments?‖  
 
3.11. The Hon‟ble Madras High Court considered Cholamandalam M S 
General Insuranc e Co. Ltd  case in TCA No.754 of 2018 as the lead case. 
Out of the aforesaid four questions, the question Nos. 2 & 3 would be 
relevant for our adjudication in the instant case. The aforesaid questions 
were addressed by the Hon‟ble Madras High Court by obser ving as 
under: - 
―12.The sum and substance of the conclusion of the Tribunal is that the 
entire reinsurance arrangement of the assessee -company is in violation and 
contrary to the provisions of  Section 2(9 ) of the Insurance Act and 
therefore, the entire reinsurance premium has to be disallowed 
under  Section 37  of the Act. The Tribunal holds that there is a clear 
prohibition for payment of reinsurance pr emium to the non - resident 
reinsurance companies.  
13.As noticed above, it is neither the case of the Revenue, nor the case of 
the assessee that the claim for deduction was made under  Section 37  of the 
Act. The Tribunal suo motu has non -suited the assessee by referring 
Explanation 1 to  Section 37  of the Act. Under the said Explanation, it was 
declared that any expenditure incurred by an assessee for an y purpose, 
which is an offence or which is prohibited by law, shall not have beenITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 10 
deemed to be incurred for the purpose of business or supervision and no 
allocation or allowance shall be made in respect of such expenditure. 
Admittedly, the Tribunal did not  render any finding that the assessee has 
incurred expenditure for a purpose, which is an offence. However, the 
Tribunal holds that expenditure incurred by the assessee is prohibited by 
law. 
14.The larger question would be whether at all this is an expendi ture? 
However, we do not propose to deal with this, as that was never decided by 
the Tribunal in the impugned order and leave the issue open. Thus, we are 
required to examine as to whether in the facts and circumstances, the 
Tribunal was right in holding t hat payment of reinsurance premium to non -
resident insurance companies is prohibited and to be disallowed 
under  Section 37  of the Act.  
15.As pointed out earlier, neither the Revenue, nor the assessee re ferred 
to Section 37  of the Act. Thus, the error committed by the Tribunal firstly is 
in exceeding the scope of the order of remand passed by the Division Bench 
of this Court in the earlier decision not ed above. Secondly, the Tribunal has 
no jurisdiction to declare a transaction to be either prohibited or illegal 
occurring under a different statute over which, it has no control. In other 
words, the Income -tax Officer cannot declare a transaction as illeg al under 
the provisions of the  Insurance Act  or the Regulations framed thereunder. 
The Income - tax Officer can examine as to whether any income accrued in 
the hands of the assessee is required to be tax ed. In the instant case, neither 
the Assessing Officer, nor the Commissioner of Income -tax (Appeals) -II (for 
brevity ―the CIT(A)‖) has made any such endeavour, but the Tribunal has 
done such an exercise which, in our considered  opinion, was without 
jurisdi ction. Nevertheless, as we have heard elaborate arguments on the 
side of the assessees as well as the Revenue, we are constrained to test the 
correctness of the order passed by the Tribunal in this regard. Thus, we 
have to decide as to whether there is a p rohibition under law for insurance 
payments to non -residents so as to attract the rigour of Explanation 1 
to Section 37  of the Act.  
16.In this regard, we may straightaway refer to the statement of objec ts and 
reasons for the Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 1961, which was introduced in 
the Lok Sabha on 14th February, 1961. This Bill was passed and 
the Insurance Act  stood amended. The Hon'ble Finance Minis ter for the 
Union of India would state that re -insurance is an essential part of general 
insurance business and at present (1961), insurance companies, operating 
in India, are dependent on companies outside India for a very large part of 
their requirements  in this connection and more often than not enter into dis -
advantageous arrangements. Moreover, re -insurance with companies 
outside India results in loss of foreign exchange and the Bill is intended to 
foster the growth of Indian re -insurance companies and  also to save foreign 
exchange. The Bill sought to provide that every insurance company 
operating in India must re -insure a certain percentage of its business withITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 11 
Indian re -insurance companies approved in this behalf by the  Central 
Government. The Central  Government was given power to fix the 
percentage and this power to be exercised in consultation with the Advisory 
Committee so constituted. The power was also conferred on the Central 
Government to allocate the percentage so fixed amongst the approved 
Indian re -insurance companies. With the aforesaid object, the Bill proposed 
to insert Part IVA under the head ―Re - insurance‖ containing two 
provisions, viz.,  Sections 101A  and 101B . 
17.The Bill had been passed by the Parliament and the  Insurance Act  stood 
amended with effect from 01.04.1961 . For better appreciation, the same is 
quoted hereinbelow: - 
―Re-insurance with Indian re -insurers.  Section 101A :- 
(1) Every insurer shall re -insure with Indian re -insurers such percentage of 
the sum assured on each policy as may be specified by the [the Authority 
with the previous approval of the Central Government] under sub -section 
(2). 
(2) For the purposes of sub -section (1), [the Authority] may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, - 
(a) specify the percentage of the sum assured on each policy to be re -insured 
and different percentages may be specified for different classes of insurance:  
Provided that no percentage so specified shall exceed thirty per cent. of the 
sum assured on  such policy; and  
(b) also specify the proportions in which the said percentage shall  be 
allocated among the Indian re -insurers.  
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1), an insurer 
carrying on fire insurance business in India may, in lieu of re -insuring the 
percentage specified under sub -section (2) of the sum assured on each policy 
in respect of such business, re -insure with Indian re -insurers such amount 
out of the first surplus in respect of that business as he thinks fit, so however 
that, the aggregate amount of the premiums payable by him on such re -
insurance in any y ear is not less than the said percentage of the premium 
income (without taking into account premiums on re -insurance ceded or 
accepted) in respect of such business during that year.  
Explanation . —For the purposes of this sub - section, the year 1961 shall b e 
deemed to mean the period from 1st April to the 31st December of that year.  
(4) A notification under sub -section (2) may also specify the terms and 
conditions in respect of any business of re -insurance required to be 
transacted under this section and suc h terms and conditions shall be binding 
on Indian re -insurers and other insurers.  
(5) No notification under sub -section (2) shall be issued except after 
consultation with the Advisory Committee constituted under  section 101B . 
(6) Every notification issued under this  section shall be laid before each 
House of Parliament, as soon as may be, after it is made.  
(7) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that nothing in sub -
section (1) shall be constru ed as preventing an insurer from re -insuring with 
any Indian re -insurer or other insurer the entire sum assured on any policy 
or any portion thereof in excess of the percentage specified under sub -
section (2).ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 12 
(8) In this section, — 
(i) ―policy‖ means a pol icy issued or renewed on or after the 1st day of 
April, 1961, in respect of general insurance business transacted in India and 
does not include a re -insurance policy; and [(ii) ―Indian re -insurer‖ means 
an Indian insurance company which has been granted a certificate of 
registration under sub -section (2A) of  section 3  by the Authority to carry on 
exclusively the re -insurance business in India.]‖  
18.The interpretation given by the Tribunal is with regard to the meaning of 
the term ―other insurer‖ occurring in sub -Section (7) of  Section 101A  of the 
Insurance Act. Sub -Section (7) of  Section 101A  starts w ith the words ―For 
the removal of doubts‖, which would denote that it is clarificatory with 
regard to what has been stated in sub - Section (1) of  Section 101A . It was 
clarified and declared that nothing in sub -Section (1) of  Section 101A  shall 
be construed as preventing an  insurer from re -insuring with any Indian re -
insurer or other insurer, the entire sum on any policy or any portion thereof 
in excess of the percentage specified under sub -Section 2 of Section 101A. 
The Tribunal while explaining the meaning of the words ―other insurer‖, 
held that the definition of ―insurer‖ under sub -Section (9) of  Section 2  of 
the Act alone should be relied upon and that is the only definition of 
―insurer‖ and if such a definition is applied, re -insurance with foreign 
companies is prohibited by law. The Tribunal held that the word ―other 
insurer‖ provided in  Section 101A(7)  of the Insurance Act enables the 
Indian insurer for reinsuring over and above the percentage fixed by the 
Regulatory Authority and the reinsurance may be either with Indian re -
insurer or other ins urer. It further held that by taking advantage of the term 
―other insurer‖, the assessee claims that they can re -insure with non -
resident reinsurance company ignoring the provisions of the  Insurance Act . 
It further proceeded to hold that the term ―other insurer‖ as provided 
in Section 101A(7)  of the Insurance Act is only the insurer, which is defined 
in Section 2(9)  of the Insurance Act and there cannot be any extended 
meaning, which can be given to the term ―other insurer‖. Thus, it held an 
Indian insurer cannot have any reinsurance arrangement with reinsurance 
company other than the insurer, as def ined in  Section 2(9)  of the Insurance 
Act. In our considered view, the conclusion of the Tribunal is not \ 
sustainable. We support such conclusion with the following reasons.  
19.In exercise of the powers  under  Section 114A  of the Insurance Act, 
and Sections 14  and 26 of the Insurance Regulatory an d Development 
Authority Act , 1999, the Central Government framed the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority Regulations pertaining to General 
Insurance – Reinsurance called Insurance Regulatory a nd Development 
Authority (General Insurance – Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000. Chapter II 
of the said Regulations deals with procedure to be followed for re -
insurance arrangements and it would be beneficial to refer to the said 
provision, which reads as fol lows: - 
―Chapter II: -ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 13 
 
 3.    Procedure        to     be      followed        for Reinsurance 
Arrangements: - 
(1)   The     Reinsurance       Programme         shall  continue to be guided by 
the following objectives to:  
a) maximise retention within the count ry; 
b) develop adequate capacity;  
c) secure the best possible protection for the reinsurance costs incurred;  
d) simplify the administration of business.  
(2) Every insurer shall maintain the maximum possible retention 
commensurate with its financial strengt h and volume of business. The 
Authority may require an insurer to justify its retention policy and may give 
such directions as  considered necessary in order to ensure that the Indian 
insurer is not merely fronting for a foreign insurer.  
(3) Every insurer s hall cede such percentage of the sum assured on each 
policy for different classes of insurance written in India to the Indian 
reinsurer as may be specified by the Authority in accordance with the 
provisions of Part IVA of the Insurance Act, 1938.  
(4) The r einsurance programme of every insurer shall commence from the 
beginning of every financial year and every insurer shall submit to the 
Authority, his reinsurance programmes for the forthcoming year, 45 days 
before the commencement of the financial year;  
(5) Within 30 days of the commencement of the financial year, every insurer 
shall file with the Authority a photocopy of every reinsurance treaty slip and 
excess of loss cover covernote in respect of that year together with the list of 
reinsurers and their sh ares in the reinsurance arrangement  
 
(6)   The    Authority     may   call   for    further   information      or    
explanations    in   respect      of    the  reinsurance programme of an insurer 
and may issue such direction, as it considers necessary;  
(7) Insurers shall place their reinsurance business outside India with only 
those reinsurers who have over a period of the past five years counting from 
the year preceding for which the business has to be placed, enjoyed a rating 
of at least BBB (with Standar d & Poor) or equivalent rating of any 
other  international rating agency. Placements with other reinsurers shall 
require the approval of the Authority. Insurers may also place reinsurances 
with Lloyd’s syndicates taking care to limit placements with individ ual 
syndicates to such shares as are commensurate with the capacity of the 
syndicate.  
 
(8) The Indian Reinsurer shall organise domestic pools for reinsurance 
surpluses in fire, marine hull and other classes in consultation with all 
insurers on basis, limit s and terms which are fair to all insurers and assist in 
maintaining the retention of business within India as close to the level 
achieved for the year 1999 -2000 as possible. The arrangements so made shall 
be submitted to the Authority within three months of these regulations coming 
into force, for approval.  
 
(9) Surplus over and above the domestic reinsurance arrangements class wise 
can be placed by the insurer independently with any of the reinsurers 
complying with sub -regulation (7)  subject to a limit of  10% of the total 
reinsurance premium ceded outside India being placed with any one 
reinsurer. Where it is necessary in respect of specialised insurance to cede aITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 14 
share exceeding such limit to any particular reinsurer, the insurer may seek 
the specific app roval of the Authority giving reasons for such cession.  
(10) Every insurer shall offer an opportunity to other Indian insurers 
including the Indian Reinsurer  to participate in its facultative and treaty 
surpluses before placement of such cessions outside I ndia.  
(11) The Indian Reinsurer shall retrocede at least 50% of the obligatory 
cessions received by it to the ceding insurers after protecting the portfolio by 
suitable excess of loss covers. Such retrocession shall be at original terms 
plus an over -riding  commission to the Indian Reinsurer not exceeding 2.5%. 
The retrocession to each ceding insurer shall be in proportion to its cessions 
to the Indian Reinsurer.  
(12) Every insurer shall be required to submit to the Authority statistics 
relating to its reins urance transactions in such forms as the Authority may 
specify, together with its annual accounts.‖ The above Regulations are 
Statutory Regulations, which bind the stakeholders.  
20.A conjoint reading of Regulation 3 and sub -Regulations (1) to (10) will 
clearly show that the objectives were to maximize the retention of revenue 
within the country. What we are required to see is whether there is any 
indication in the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(General Insurance – Reinsurance) Regulations, 2000 prohibiting re -
insurers with a foreign insurer. A reading of Regulations 3(2), 3(4), 3(7), 
3(9) and 3(10) clearly show that there is no bar.  
21.The sum and substance of the Regulations is that every  insurer shall 
cede such percentage of sum assured on  each policy, for different classes of 
insurance written in India to the Indian re -insurer as may be specified by 
the Authority under  Section 101A  of the Insurance Act. Therefore, every 
Indian insurer is  to cede, such specified/notified percentage of the sum 
assured and not the whole. The commencement date for the re -insurance 
programme is also spelt out in the Regulations. The insurer has to disclose 
payments made outside India and there is also a restri ction on with whom, 
they can enter into a contract of re -insurance, as the Regulations place an 
embargo stating that such entity should have enjoyed the rating of at least 
BBB or equivalent rating of any other international rating agency. Thus, 
the reading  of the Regulations will clearly show there is absolutely no 
prohibition for re -insurance with a foreign re -insurance company.  
22.The observations made in the finding rendered by the Tribunal stating 
that the Regulations are inconsistent with the provision s of the Act are 
utterly perverse and to be outrightly rejected.  In 2008, the Standing 
Committee on Finance proposed the amendment to the Insurance Laws and 
the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2008 was introduced. The report of 
the Committee states that t he General Insurance Corporation Re is the only 
national re -insurer operating in India and also has re -insurance business 
in international market and its share of international business is 44 per 
cent. The Chairman of the General Insurance Corporation (GIC ), who isITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 15 
one of the respondents in these appeals, has deposed before the Standing 
Committee on Finance and would state that the legal position as of 2008, 
there was no bar on doing re -insurance business by any foreign re -
insurance company in India. The Ch airman, GIC expressed deep concern 
that when GIC has to transact international business in various countries, 
they are subjected to lot of crosschecks and regulation and there is no 
corresponding regulation in India, as a result of which, foreign re -
insura nce companies can accept re -insurance business without taking any 
licence and without opening any branch in India. Thus, the suggestion was 
there is a need for regulation for any foreign country coming into India and 
doing re -insurance business. Ultimately , the Standing Committee on 
Finance noted that there is no bar on foreign re -insurance business 
companies carrying on re - insurance business in the country without any 
licence or opening a branch, nor there was a regulation to control the 
transaction of fo reign re -insurers. This ultimately, led to the amendment to 
the Insurance Act  by amending the definition of ―insurer‖ in  Section 2(9)  of 
the Insuranc e Act to mean a foreign company engaged in re -insurance 
business through a branch established in India. The Tribunal was of the 
view that unless and until a branch is opened by the foreign re - insurance 
company, the question of conducting re -insurance busi ness in India cannot 
be done. In our considered view, this conclusion of the Tribunal is not 
sustainable. The answer lies not in any recent proceedings but, a circular 
issued by the CBDT as early as on 03.10.1956 bearing Circular No. 
38(XXXIII -7) [F.No.51( 5)-IT/54]. The operative portion of the circular 
reads as follows: - 
―Liability to tax or freedom therefrom of the foreign reinsurer 
will depend on various factors, such as the existence of 
reciprocity between the Indian insurer and the foreign reinsurer, 
the magnitude of local retention as compared with the 
reinsurance premium paid by the Indian insurer to the foreign 
reinsurer and so on. The Income -tax Officers will, therefore, have 
to examine each case in the light of its facts and decide where tax 
liabil ity is attracted, what portion of the income from the 
reinsurance should be assessed under  section 42(2)  of the 1922 
Act [corresponding to  section 92  of the 1961 Act].‖  
 
23.A reading of the above circular would clearly reveal that at no point of 
time, the Income -tax Department took a stand that the re -insurance 
business with a foreign re -insurance company was a prohibited business. 
Further, the Tribuna l fell in error in rendering such a finding without 
noticing the Re -insurance Regulations, which has been provided by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. In the said 
Regulations, the highlights of the statement and objects for intr oduction of 
Chapter IVA to the  Insurance Act  in the  amendment, in the year 1961, had 
been brought into after which, there is an order of Preference for Re -
insurance Cessions. In the order of preference,  the last among them is what 
can be offered to Indian insurers and overseas insurers. Thus, theITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 16 
regulations does not wholly prohibit any re -insurance with overseas re -
insurance companies subject to the condition that the other priorities 
contained in Claus es 1, 2 and 3 of the regulations are exhausted. 
Furthermore, the Reserve Bank of India, Exchange Control Department, 
Central Office, Mumbai notified the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Insurance) Regulations, 2000. The major changes in the procedure as per 
the memorandum of Exchange Control Regulations relating to General 
Insurance in India (GIM) were summarised and the relevant Regulation, 
pertaining to re - insurance arrangement, is as follows: - 
 
S.No.  Subject Matter  Changes  
1 Reinsurance 
Arrangement  The rei nsurance arrangement of public sector 
general insurance companies registered with 
ITDA are to be decided by the Reinsurance 
respective Boards of the insurance companies 
and IRDA is to be kept informed. ADs 
designated by these insurance companies are 
now pe rmitted to make remittances falling 
under such approved reinsurance 
arrangements without reference to the bank . 
24.The above will clearly show that re -insurance arrangement with a 
foreign insurance company is permissible . Thus, it is evidently clear that on 
and after the introduction of  Section 101A  to the  Insurance Act , there is a 
mandatory requirement for other insurer to  re-insure with the Indian r e-
insurers and such percentage is put to a maximum of 30% and the language 
of Section 101A  nowhere prohibits the re -insurance with foreign re -
insurance companies above the percentage specified by the aut hority with 
previous approval by the Central Government.  That apart, the Tribunal 
erred in drawing a presumption regarding prohibition of re -insurance with 
foreign re - insurance companies. This presumption is erroneous for the 
simple reason that the statem ent of objects of the  Insurance Act  itself 
clearly stipulates wherever there is a prohibition. By way of illustration, we 
can refer to  Sections 2(c ), 2(c)(b) , 2(9), 32(a) , 40, 41, 42(a)  and 52(a) . 
Therefore, no inference could have been drawn, as drawn by the Tribunal 
and conseque ntly, to be held that there can be no bar or prohibition under 
the Insurance Act , which prohibits ceding of re - insurance with a foreign 
re-insurer outside India . 
25.Section 2(16B)  defines ―re -insurance‖ to mean the insurance of all or 
part of one insurer's risk by another insurer who accepts the risk for a 
mutually acceptable premium. There is no distinction drawn between an 
Indian re -insurer and a fo reign re - insurer . As rightly submitted by 
Mr.M.Vijayaraghavan, learned counsel for CIG, the words ―other insurer‖ 
occurring in sub -Section 7 of Section 101 A of the Insurance Act  cannot be 
treated as a ―pronoun‖ or a ―noun‖ and should be read as a ―verb‖.  This 
is more so because, there  is no separate definition provided for ―otherITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 17 
insurer‖ and considering the scheme of  Section 101A  of the Insurance Act , 
―other insurer‖ should mean the insurer, who is outside India and not a 
person in terms of the definition under  Section 2(9)  of the Act. In the light of 
the above discussion, we are of the clear view t hat the Tribunal erred in 
coming to a conclusion that it is not the intention of the Parliament to 
authorize an Indian insurer to have re -insurance outside the country 
ignoring the provisions of  Insuranc e Act  referred above. The Tribunal had 
no jurisdiction to declare any provisions of the regulations to be 
inconsistent with the provisions of the  Insurance Act . This was wholly 
outside the purview of t he Tribunal. Thus, the Tribunal clearly exceeded its 
jurisdiction in stating that the assessees have engaged in a transaction, 
which is prohibited by law and therefore, not entitled for deduction 
under  Section 37  of the Act. This has never been the case of the Revenue 
either before the Assessing Officer or before the CIT(A) or before the 
Tribunal, when they filed appeals challenging that portion of the order 
passed by the CIT(A), which was against the Re venue.  
26.The Tribunal while upholding the order of the Assessing Officer did not 
assign any independent reasons. The discussion in the impugned order 
relates to the validity of re -insurance business outside India done by an 
Indian insurer. The Tribunal di d not consider the correctness of the order 
passed by the Assessing Officer or that of the  CIT(A). Therefore, the 
Tribunal could not have held that the Assessing Officer rightly disallowed 
the re -insurance premium under  Section 40(a)(i) . This finding is not 
supported with any reasons. Therefore, the Tribunal misdirected itself, 
exceeded the scope of remand as ordered by the Division Bench and 
ventured into a jurisdiction, which is wholly prohibited in the  light of the 
plain language of  Section 254(1)  of the Act.  
27.Thus, for the above reasons, we are of the clear view that the order 
passed by the Tribunal calls for interference. Accordingly, the appeals , filed 
by the assessee are allowed and the substantial questions of law framed are 
answered in favour of the assessee.  
28.In the light of the above, the matter stands remanded to the Tribunal to 
take a decision on the following points: - 
(i) Whether the As sessing Officer was right in disallowing the re -insurance 
premium under  Section 40(a)(i)  of the Act;  
(ii) Whether the CIT(A) was right in rejecting partially the appeal filed by 
the assessee; and  
(iii) W hether the CIT(A) was justified in restricting the claim of the assessee 
to 15% instead of confirming the order passed by the Assessing Officer.  
29.We make it clear that the Tribunal shall decide the above questions 
alone and nothing more and the decision shall be taken based on theITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 18 
available material and the assessee and the Revenue are not entitled to 
place any fresh material before the Tribunal so as to enable the Tribunal to 
take a decision as expeditiously as possible. No costs. Consequently, the 
conne cted miscellaneous petitions are closed.  
(Underlining provided by this Tribunal while placing reliance on the 
decision of Hon’ble Madras High Court ) 
 
3.12.  Hence, from the aforesaid decision of Hon‟ble Madras High Court, it 
could be safely concluded that payment of re -insurance premium by the 
assessee to foreign reinsur ers who do not have place of business or 
branch established in India, is not in violation of provisions with Insurance 
Act and consequently the provisions of Explanation -1 to Section 37 of t he 
Act could not be applied in the facts of the instant case. To this extent , 
the assessee succeeds. Accordingly, the bifurcation of payments prior to 
26/12/2014 and after 26/12/2014 as done by the ld. CIT(A) in his order 
need not be gone into as they woul d become redundant.  
 
3.13.  It is also pertinent to note that assessee vide letter dated 
29/04/2014 had written a letter to IRDA submitting the final re -insurance 
programme for the year 2014 -15 while giving complete list thereon. 
These documents are enclo sed in pages 245 -249 of the paper book filed 
before us. Further the assessee vide letter dated 28/04/2014 had 
addressed to IRDA seeking approval as per reinsurance regulations 3(11) -
2013 in respect of reinsurance premium for the year 2014 -15 giving 
complet e details thereon. These documents are enclosed from pages 250 -
258 of the paper book filed before us. In response to the same, after 
analyzing the reinsurance programme for the  year 2014 -15, IRDA had 
addressed a letter of the assessee dated 27/04/2015 appr oving the 
requests of the assessee.  This goes to prove that the reinsurance 
premium sought to be paid to foreign reinsurers outside India was taken 
due cognizance by the IRDA , being the regulatory authority for insuranceITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 19 
companies , and had not found anythi ng adverse or in any violation of 
provisions of Insurance Act and insurance regulations thereon. Further we 
find that IRDA vide letter dated 12/02/2020 had given clarification in 
respect of assessment proceedings of the assessee company for 
A.Y.2016 -17 and  2017-18 directly addressed to the ld. AO , wherein , it 
was specifically clarified that the reinsurance premium paid by the 
assessee to foreign reinsurers outside India who do not have any 
business presence in India , was permitted in law and was permitted 
activity under the insurance Act 1938 and IRDA (General Insurance -
Reinsurance) Regulations issued by the authority. It was also mentioned 
in the said letter that the regulations issued by the authority i.e. IRDA are 
subordinate legislation which are also pl aced before both the Houses of 
Parliament. Hence, in view of the above, it could be safely concluded that 
the payment of reinsurance premium by the assessee to foreign 
reinsurers could not be construed as payment made in violation of 
provisions of Insuranc e Act and IRDA regulations.  
 
3.14. We find that the ld. CIT(A) had considered the entire issue in 
dispute before us by applying the amended definition of Section 2(9) of 
the Insurance Amendment Act, 2015 which came into force from 
26/12/2014 wherein , it wa s mentioned that insurer means foreign 
insurance company having  a branch established in India. The ld. CIT(A) 
observed that since  the foreign reinsurer in the instant case does not 
have a branch or place of business in India, the amended definition of 
Section 2(9) of the Act w.e.f. 26/12/2014 would go against the assessee. 
Accordingly, the ld. CIT(A) had granted relief to the assessee in respect of 
payments made prior to 26/12/2014. But we find that the Hon‟ble Madras 
High Court had already held that the de finition of Section 2(9) of theITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 20 
Insurance Act has no role to play in the instant case. Hence, there was no 
need to get into the amendment in Section 2(9) thereon.  
 
3.15. We find that the ld. CIT(A) had adjudicated the issue in the instant 
case by observin g as under: - 
 ―4.2.5 Having gone through the decision of the Chennai High Court as well 
as the Income -tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in the case of DCIT vs. 
Cholamandalam Ms General insurance Company Ltd, it is clear that the 
question for consideration was whether the provisions of section 2(9) of the 
Insurance Act, 1938 was applicable with effect from 26 -12-2014 or applicable 
for earlier assessment years. ITAT held that it was applicable for earlier years 
as well which was reversed by Hon'ble High Court. Th e A.Y. involved in the 
said case pertained to A.Y.2003 -04 to 2009 -10. There has been an amendment 
carried out by the Parliament in Section 2(9) of the Act by Insurance Laws 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 with retrospective effect from 26.12.2014. After the 
said ame ndment Section 2(9) of Insurance Act, 1938 is applicable in respect of 
re-insurance premium paid to non -resident companies as well and it enables 
foreign company engaged in re -insurance business to establish a branch in 
India. Therefore, unless a branch is  established in India, the non -resident 
insurance company cannot do any business after 2014. Before 2014, in 
absence of any specific provision, I am in agreement with Hon'ble High 
Court's decision that Indian insurance companies can reinsure with non -
resid ent companies. However once when specific provisions have been 
incorporated in the Insurance Act relating to reinsurance as well as non 
resident reinsurance the applicability of "other insurer" becomes redundant as 
far as non resident reinsurance is concer ned. AO therefore has rightly held 
that payments made in respect of reinsurance premium to non -resident 
reinsurance companies were in violation of the Insurance Act, 1938 
(Insurance Act) and not admissible as business expenditure as per 
Explanation (1) to section of 37 of the Act.  
 
4.2.6 Further, the said amount was also disallowed without prejudice basis 
under section 40(a){i) of the Act as no TDS was deducted by the appellant 
company. Income -tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in the case of DCIT vs. 
Cholamanda lam Ms General insurance Company Ltd held that the profit of 
non-resident reinsurance company or the person in India who has standing 
contract with underwriters, who are members of the Lloyds, is taxable in 
India. Accordingly, it was held that the insuranc e companies had to 
necessarily deduct tax on the premium paid to foreign companies for 
reinsurance. Appellant has not deducted TDS on the ground that income 
related to reinsurance with non residents is not deemed to accrue or arise in 
lndia. As per the app ellant there are certain treaties which provides that 
insurance business except reinsurance business would be deemed to be a PE 
of the non resident in the other contracting state. AO has allowed reinsurance 
premium ceded to such non resident where there is  a specific exclusion for the 
insurance compa nies from the purview of PE. As a corollary i mplies that 
where there is no specific exclusion, the reinsu rance business would be 
deemed to be a PE in the other contracting stat e. The business gets generatedITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 21 
in the contracting state and independent brokers sco ut for business on behalf 
of the non resident reinsurers and habitually secures orders on their behalf. 
When the appellant company enters into a reinsurance contract with a non 
resident through a broker it im plicitly means that the broker has canvassed for 
orders for the non resident assessee. Accepting appellant's contention of non 
deduction of IDS creates an inverted structure where appellant is deducting 
IDS on reinsurance premium in case of non residents w hich have a branch in 
India and not deducting any IDS in cases where the non residents have no 
branch. Interestingly appellant has informed that some non residents procure 
order u/s 197 of the I.T.Act and in those case it has withheld tax from the 
payment made to such non -resident reinsurers.  
 
4.2.7 The issue of applicability of TDS on reinsurance premium paid to non 
residents now gets further clarified after amendment in Section 2(9} by 
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 with retrospective effect from 
26.12.2014 which enables foreign company engaged in re -insurance business 
to establish a branch in India. In view of the above discussion, it is clear that 
appellant was liable to deduct TDS on reinsurance premium paid to non 
residents and hence action of th e AO to disallow the same under section 
40(a)(i) of the Act is accordingly upheld. Ground 2 and 3 of the appellant is 
hereby dismissed. ‖ 
 
3.16. We find that the Hon‟ble Madras High Court in the aforesaid case 
had held that definition in Section 2(9) of the  Insurance Act is 
irrelevant for the purpose of Section 101A read with IRDA regulations. 
Hence, the observation made by the ld. CIT(A) in para 4.2.5, in our 
considered opinion, is wrong.  
 
3.17. Let us now examine the applicability of provisions of Section 
40(a)(i) of the Act in respect of reinsurance premium paid to foreign 
reinsurers. We find that the ld. CIT(A) had placed reliance on the 
decision of Chennai Tribunal in the case of Cholamandalam M S 
General Insurance Co. Ltd  to drive home the point that the  said 
payment shall be liable for deduction of tax at source in terms of 
Section 40(a)(i) of the Act. We find that  though the Hon‟ble Madras 
High Court in para 26 had held that Chennai Tribunal decision in 
confirming the action of the ld. AO in invoking p rovisions of Section 
40(a)(i) of the Income Tax Act was not supported with any reasons, 
finally in para 28, the Hon‟ble Madras High Court had remanded thisITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 22 
question to the Tribunal to decide whether the ld. AO was right in 
disallowing the reinsurance premi um u/s. 40(a)(i) of the Act. Hence, 
that question needs to be decided by the Tribunal. Accordingly, the  
issue of applicability of provisions of section 40(a)(i) of the Act is  
adjudicated by us independently. We find that the Co -ordinate Bench 
of this Mumba i Tribunal in the case of DCIT vs. ICICI Lombard General 
Insurance Co. Pvt. Ltd., in ITA Nos. 6837 & 6832/Mum/2014 for A.Y. 
2005-06 and 2009 -10 vide order dated  04/10/2016 had adjudicated 
the very same issue in respect of payments made to M/s. Odyssey 
America Reinsurance Corporation, Singapore for providing reinsurance 
business, without deduction of tax at source and applicability of 
provisions of Section 40(a)(i) of the Act. We find that the Tribunal in 
the aforesaid case placed reliance in assessee‟s own case for 
A.Y.2004 -05 reported in 152 ITD 855 and also in yet another case 
rendered in the context of revision proceedings u/s.263 of the Act in 
ITA No.5777/Mum/2011 , had quashed the revision proceedings 
u/s.263 of the Act by observing as under: - 
 ―2.3. Thu s, the Tribunal by the aforesaid order held that invocation 
of revisional jurisdiction was not valid. In view of this uncontroverted 
factual matrix, the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed as 
infructuous. ‖ 
 
3.18. We further find that the Co -ordinate Bench o f this Tribunal in the 
case of General Reinsurance AG, General Reinsurance AG India Branch 
vs. DCIT in ITA No.7433/Mum/2018 for A.Y.2015 -16 dated 14/06/2019 
had an occasion to address the same issue from the perspective of the 
recipient foreign company. In  the said Tribunal order dated 
14/06/2019, in para 5 , this Tribunal had categorically stated that 
assessee company in that case had challenged the decision of the 
income tax authorities in treating the receipt of reinsurance premium 
as taxable in India. He nce, the question that was raised beforeITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 23 
Mumbai Tribunal in that said case was from the perspective of foreign 
reinsurance company. The decision rendered thereon could be made 
applicable to the assessee‟s case before us also by drawing  the same 
analogy.   The relevant operative portion of the judgement is 
reproduced hereinbelow: -  
 ―11. We have carefully considered the rival submissions and perused the 
relevant material and record. As our discussion in the earlier paras show, 
the substantive dispute in this  appeal relates to the taxability or otherwise 
in India of the reinsurance premium earned by the non - resident foreign 
assessee by underwriting the risks of various Indian insurance companies. 
It is not in dispute that the appellant before us is an entity incorporated in 
Germany and is a tax resident of Germany. The manner in which the 
reinsurance premium is earned by the assessee is   also not in dispute. But 
to recapitulate, we may note that the appellant is a global re -insurance 
company which has entered into re -insurance contracts with various 
Indian insurance companies. For underwriting the risks of the Indian 
insurance companies, assessee earns reinsurance premiums, which is the 
subject -matter of dispute before us. So far as the nature of receipts in 
question is concerned, there is a convergence between the assessee and the 
Revenue that the same are in the nature of business receipts. It is quite well 
understood that in such like cases where the foreign company earns 
business income, the same can be taxe d in India only if it has a PE in India 
or 'business connection' so as to fall within the scope of Indian tax laws. At 
the outset, it has been asserted by the appellant before us that in such 
situations, the onus is on the Revenue to establish that the for eign company 
has a 'business connection' or a PE in India so as to invite any tax liability 
under the Indian tax laws. Ostensibly, the aforesaid is supported by the 
judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of E funds  IT Solution 
Inc vs ADIT , (2017) 86 taxmann.com 240. Therefore, in this background, 
we may now examine the facts of the instant case as to whether such an 
onus has been discharged by the Revenue or not .” 
 
17. It has been asserted be fore us that the instant year is the first year 
when the assessee has filed a return of income as it had some taxable 
income, while in the past years there was no taxable income. In the past, 
there was no income other than premium on reinsurance business, yet the 
existence of LO since 2007 is in the knowledge of the assessing authority 
and no steps have been taken in any of the earlier years to construe the 
activities of the LO as constituting a 'business connection' or a PE of 
assessee in India. The learne d representative asserted that it is only in this 
year that the function of the LO (for part of the year) has been understood 
by the Assessing Officer to be giving rise to a 'business connection' or 
existence of PE in India so as to hold that the income fr om the premium onITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 24 
reinsurance earned by the assessee is taxable in India. In our considered 
opinion, factually as well as on point of law, we do not find any merit in 
the stand of the Revenue that the activities of the LO of   assessee generate 
any scope fo r treating it as a PE of assessee in India or a 'business 
connection' in India. We say so for the reason that the conditions under 
which the LO has been allowed to operate clearly bring out that the 
activities were preparatory or auxiliary in nature and th e same cannot 
lead to determination of a PE in India, considering the provisions 
of Article 5(4)(e)  of the India -Germany Tax Treaty. As per the statement 
made by the learned representative at the Bar, t he LO has complied with 
the conditions imposed by IRDA and there is no adverse view determined 
by IRDA. Thus, on facts we do not find any force in the plea of the 
Revenue; and, even on the point of law, as has been brought out by the 
Hon'ble Delhi High Cou rt in the case of National Petroleum Construction 
Co. (supra), the LO merely acts as a channel of communication between 
the Head office and the parties in India and cannot undertake any 
commercial, trading or industrial activity, and thus, the activities o f the LO 
cannot give rise to a 'business connection' within the meaning of Sec. 
9(1)(i) of the Act or a PE of the assessee in India, considering that the 
activities are compliant with the approval granted by IRDA.  
18. We may now address the point as to whe ther the operations of the 
Indian subsidiary, which have indeed been carried out from India, can be 
construed as enabling invoking of 'business connection' of the assessee as 
envisaged under  Section 9(1) (i) of the Act or whether the Indian subsidiary 
constitutes a PE of assessee in India. Article 5(1) of the India - Germany 
Tax Treaty provides that PE means a fixed place of business through 
which the business or enterprise is wholly or partially carried o n. On this 
aspect, the case set -up by the Revenue is that the key functions of 
reinsurance business, namely, actuarial services and underwriting services 
are provided by the Indian subsidiary. Such discussion is contained in 
paras 9.7.2 to 9.8 of the final  order of the Assessing Officer. On this 
aspect, we have carefully examined the contentions put forth by the 
Revenue as well as the material on record, namely, the Master Service 
Agreement and the Addendum to the Master Service agreement between 
assessee a nd the Indian subsidiary and find that the approach of the 
Assessing Officer is quite misdirected. In fact, the services that have been 
provided by the Indian subsidiary are support services in the field of 
actuarial and underwriting functions undertaken b y the assessee and not 
services of actuarial or underwriting of insurance risks per se. We have 
already quite succinctly noted the nature and scope of the services 
rendered by the Indian subsidiary in the earlier paras 12 and 13 above. In 
fact, the Assessi ng Officer is grossly wrong in holding in para 9.7.8 of his 
order that all the functions with respect to the claim settlement are carried 
out by the Indian subsidiary itself; rather, it is a case where the Indian 
subsidiary provides support functions and a ssists the assessee in such 
matters. The privity of contract is between the assessee and the Indian 
insurance companies and, it is abundantly clear from the terms ofITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 25 
engagement between the assessee and the Indian subsidiary that the Indian 
subsidiary is no t authorised to execute any contract or settle claims on its 
own or on behalf of the assessee. In fact, there is no factual support for the 
stand of the Assessing Officer, as there is nothing either as per the Service 
agreement or any material to say that the Indian subsidiary has provided 
actuarial and risk underwriting services, which are   core and crucial 
activities of the reinsurance business. Even the use of 'Electronic 
Underwriting Software' by the Indian subsidiary is a misnomer. The 
software is a st andard tool which is used by global entities of the group for 
entering the data in respect of the reinsurance transactions of the assessee. 
The software is owned by the assessee and not the Indian subsidiary, and 
the software is used by the Indian subsidia ry to enter the data of the Indian 
insurance companies, but no further recommendations are made by the 
Indian subsidiary. It is only the assessee through its own personnel who 
examines the proposal and negotiates the terms and conditions of the 
reinsurance  contracts. There is nothing to dispute the assertions of the 
assessee that the infrastructure, personnel and approvals to carry out 
reinsurance activities are from outside India. Thus, there is nothing to 
suggest that the core activities of the reinsuranc e business of the assessee 
are carried out in or from India by the Indian subsidiary.  
19. Moreover, in the context of  Article 5(1)  of the India -Germany Tax 
Treaty, what is essential is to examine whethe r there exists an assessee's 
fixed place of business in India or not. Factually or legally speaking, the 
place of business of Indian subsidiary per -se can in no way be equated to 
mean the fixed place of business of the assessee in India. In fact, in this 
connection, the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of E 
funds IT Solution Inc (supra) are very apt. In para 12 of its order, the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court has dealt with in detail, by making reference to the 
findings of the Hon'ble High Court , and concluded that there was no fixed 
place PE of the assessee before it on the facts of the case before it.One of 
the points noted by the Hon'ble High Court was that the foreign company 
was dependent on the Indian subsidiary for earning its income. This  aspect 
was specifically negated and held not to be a relevant criteria to determine 
whether there existed a fixed place PE or not. Similarly, the manner and 
mode of carrying on of transaction was also not found to be a proper test 
to determine as to wheth er there existed a fixed place of business or not. 
Taking a cue from the reasoning approved by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, 
in the present case too, the mere rendering of support services in 
connection with actuarial or underwriting services cannot be a grou nd to 
say that there exists a fixed place or a PE of the assessee in India. 
Therefore, on parity of reasoning which prevailed with the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court in the case of E funds IT Solution Inc (supra), in the 
present case too, the arguments of the Reven ue do not deserve any 
indulgence. Accordingly, the same are rejected.  
20. So far as the case of the Revenue that there is a dependent PE in India 
is concerned, herein also, the Revenue has merely brushed aside the claimITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 26 
of the assessee that the Indian subs idiary does not have any authority to 
secure contracts or solicit business on its behalf in India independent of 
the assessee. According to the Revenue, the Indian subsidiary uses brand 
name of the assessee while carrying out its activities in India. In ou r view, 
the same cannot be a ground to say that there existed a dependent PE in 
India. In fact, a point which has been emphasised before us is that the 
assertions of the Revenue that the Indian subsidiary has a decision making 
authority is a mere bald asse rtion and is devoid of any factual support. We 
have perused the order of the   Assessing Officer as well as of the DRP and 
find that the assertions of the assessee in this regard have been completely 
brushed aside. The income - tax authorities have not refer red to any 
particular arrangement or agreement or any other piece of evidence to 
show that the Indian subsidiary could enter into contracts or was 
authorised to enter into any business in India on behalf of the assessee. 
Considering that it was imperative for the Revenue to bring out instances 
where the Indian subsidiary had concluded contract or secured orders on 
behalf of the assessee, we find that such burden has not been discharged 
by the Revenue. In fact, at the time of hearing, the learned representat ive 
for the assessee referred to an illustrative agreement placed at pages 28 to 
102 of the Paper Book, which is a reinsurance arrangement with SBI 
Group Life, which has been entered into by assessee and the Indian 
insurance company, i.e. SBI Group Life di rectly. Therefore, factually also, 
we find no support for the case of the Revenue that the Indian subsidiary 
constitutes a dependent PE of assessee in India.  
21. Before we conclude, we may also refer to some of the precedents which 
have been cited before u s in order to establish that in somewhat similar 
situations, foreign companies engaged in reinsurance business have not 
been found to be having a fixed PE or an agency PE in India in the form of 
an Indian subsidiary. In this context, reference has been inv ited to the 
decision of the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Swiss re -
Insurance Co. Ltd. vs DDIT(IT ), [2015] 55 taxmann.com 520 (Mumbai - 
Trib.), which according to the learned representativ e, is directly on the 
point. We have perused the said decision and find that the   factual matrix 
which prevails in the instant case before us is similar to what has been 
considered in the case of Swiss re -Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra). In para 2.1 
of the orde r, the relevant facts have been noted and the discussion reveals 
that the facts before us are quite similar to the case before our co -ordinate 
Bench. It was the case of a reinsurance company based in Switzerland 
which was receiving income for providing rei nsurance to various 
insurance companies in India. Swiss re -Insurance company had a wholly 
owned subsidiary in India which was rendering administrative, market 
intelligence and other risk assessment services, which is quite similar to 
the services being ren dered to assessee before us by its Indian subsidiary. 
Therein also, the appellant was remunerating its Indian subsidiary on the 
basis of cost plus mark -up. Therein also, the Assessing Officer had sought 
to tax the income by invoking 'business connection' i n terms of Sec. 9(1)(i) 
of the Act as well as treating the Indian subsidiary as a PE in India. InITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 27 
nutshell, the facts as well as the dispute before our co -ordinate Bench in 
the case of Swiss re -Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra) stood on a similar footing 
as is th e case before us. Our co - ordinate Bench considered the provisions 
of Explanation -2 to Sec. 9(1) of the Act as well as the provisions of India -
Switzerland DTAA, which was the subject matter before it, and concluded 
that the foreign company therein did not have any 'business connection' in 
India or a PE in India. The aforesaid precedent fully supports the 
inference which has been drawn by us in the earlier paras. Similarly, in the 
context of  Sections 201 /201(1A)  of the Act proceedings in the ITA Nos. 
4805 to 4808/Mum/2015 dated 05.07.2017 in the case of M/s. Bharti -AXA 
Life Insurance Co. Ltd., the foreign company in India was held not to be 
liable   for ta x in India on its reinsurance premium earned from the Indian 
insurance companies. In fact, our co -ordinate Bench in the case of M/s. 
Bharti -AXA Life Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra) followed the earlier decision 
in the case of Swiss re -Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra) . Similar was the 
situation in the case of Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd., ITA No. 
2560/PN/2012 dated 03.02.2016 wherein also, payments by Indian 
concerns to the foreign reinsurance company was disallowed on the 
ground of failure to deduct the re quisite tax at source. Our co -ordinate 
Bench held that the foreign reinsurance company earning reinsurance 
premium from the Indian concerns was not liable for tax in India and, 
therefore, the action of the Assessing Officer was set aside.  
22. All these dec isions as well as our discussion aforesaid enables us to 
come to a conclusion that the income -tax authorities have erred in holding 
that there exists a 'business connection' in India under  Section 9(1)(i ) of 
the Act and also that there exists a PE in India within the meaning 
of Article 5(1)  and/or 5(4) of the India -Germany Tax Treaty. In view of the 
aforesaid discussion, we hereby set -aside the order of Assessing Officer 
and uphold the stand of the assessee. As a consequence, so far as Ground 
of appeal nos. 1 to 4 are concerned, the same are treated as allowed . 
 
3.19.  Similar view was taken by the Co -ordinate Bench of Pune 
Tribunal in the case of Baja j Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. ,vs. 
DCIT in ITA No.2560/PN/2012 for A.Y.2008 -09 dated 03/02/2016 vide 
paras 26-43. For the sake of brevity, the relevant operative portion of 
that Pune Tribunal order is not reproduced herein.  
 
3.20. It is a fact that  in the impugned case of the assessee before us, 
i.e. Tata AIG Insurance, it is not in dispute that foreign reinsurer does 
not have any place of business or branch or any business connectionITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 28 
or permanent establishment in India. Hence, the payments made by 
the assessee company to the said foreign insurer is not chargeable to 
tax in India in the hands of the foreign reinsurer in terms of Section 
195(1) of the Income Tax Act. Hence, there is no obligation on the 
part of the assessee payer to deduct  tax at sour ce thereon. Reliance in 
this regard is placed on the decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in 
the case of GE India Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd., vs CIT reported in 
327 ITR 456.  Accordingly, the provisions of Section 40(a)(i) of the Act 
would not come into o peration at all. Moreover, these decisions were 
duly quoted by the assessee before the ld. CIT(A) vide its submission 
dated 25/02/2020 which was completely ignored by the ld. CIT(A) 
while adjudicating the issue.  
 
3.21. We further find that the Co -ordinate Bench decision of this 
Tribunal in Swiss Reinsurance Co. Ltd., vs. DDIT International 
Taxation, Mumbai reported in 55 taxmann.com 520 (Mumbai Trib.) 
dated 13/02/2015 for A.Y.2010 -11 had also addressed the very same 
issue. The relevant operative portion of the said order is reproduced 
hereunder: - 
 
“5.3 Assuming that conditions of (i) & (ii) mentioned herein above are 
fulfilled, we do not find that the employees of SRSIPL are providing services to 
the assessee as if they were the employees of the assessee. Th erefore, condition 
laid down under Article -5 of the Treaty are also not fulfilled to treat SRSIPL as 
PE of the assessee. Article 5(4) of the Treaty reads as under: - 
"Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance 
enterprise of Contr acting State shall, except in regard to re -insurance, 
be deemed to have a permanent establishment in other Contracting 
State if it collects premiums in the territory of that other State or 
insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent  of 
an independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies."  
 
3.22. From the perusal of the relevant clause of Article 5(4) of the 
treaty reproduced supra, it could be concluded that the said Article isITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 29 
not at all applicable for reinsurer. This is relevant in v iew of the 
observations made by the ld. CIT(A) in 4.2.6 as under: - 
 ―As per the appellant there are certain treaties which provides that insurance 
business except reinsurance business would be deemed to be a PE of the non 
resident in the other contracting state. AO has allowed reinsurance premium 
ceded to such non resident where there is a specific exclusion for the 
insurance compa nies from the purview of PE. As a corollary implies that 
where there is no specific exclusion, the reinsurance business would be  
deemed to be a PE in the other contracting state. ‖ 
 
(Underlining provided by this Tribunal ) 
 
3.23. We hold that the aforesaid observation of the ld. CIT(A) is 
incorrect in view of the aforesaid decision of Mumbai Tribunal dated 
13/02/2015 and in view of t he fact that Article 5(4) of the treaty does 
not apply to reinsurer. Moreover, the ld. CIT(A) accepts the existence 
of independent brokers involved and if it is so, it cannot constitute a 
PE. 
 
3.24. Hence, the entire observations of the lower authorities h ad been 
duly addressed in the aforesaid findings by us. At the cost of 
repetition, we would like to reiterate the fact that there is absolutely 
no dispute that the foreign reinsurers does not have any place of 
business in India / permanent establishment in  India / branch 
established  in India /  Liaison office in India. Hence, any payment 
made by the assessee company to such foreign insurers would not be 
chargeable to tax in the hands of the foreign reinsurers in India in 
terms of Section 195(1) of the Act . Accordingly, as stated earlier , there 
would be no obligation on the part of the assessee , being a payer , to 
deduct tax at source and consequently there cannot be any 
disallowance u/s.40(a)(i) of the Act. Accordingly, assessee succeeds on 
this ground also.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 30 
3.25. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid observations the ground 
Nos.3 & 4 raised are allowed.  
 
4. The ground No.10 raised by the assessee is with regard to claim of 
depreciation.  
 
4.1. We have heard rival submissions and perused the materials 
availa ble on record. We find that assessee had debited depreciation in 
its profit and loss account and also claimed depreciation as per the 
provisions of Section 32 of the Act in the return of income. The ld. AO 
placed reliance on the decision of the Co -ordinate  Bench of this 
Tribunal in the case of New India Assurance Company Ltd., vs. 
Additional CIT reported in 12 taxmann.com 465 and disallowed the 
claim of depreciation as per Section 32 of the Act by holding that no 
deductions are permissible from the profits as per the profit and loss 
account while assessing insurance companies as per Rule 5 of the first 
schedule to the Act read with Section 44 of the Act. We find that the 
assessee had added back the book depreciation while filing its return 
of income. Hence b y this process, the assessee was neither granted 
deduction for book depreciation nor granted deduction for income tax 
depreciation computed u/s.32 of the Income Tax Act. Hence, it had 
resulted in a situation that no depreciation at all was granted 
deductio n to the assessee. This action was upheld by the ld. CIT(A). 
This, in our considered opinion , had resulted in gross injustice to the 
assessee. In any case, the depreciation computed u/s.32 of the Act is 
to be granted mandatorily to the assessee as per Explanation 5 to 
Section 32 of the Act. In our considered opinion, the effect of Rule 5, 
Clause „a‟ of schedule -1 is that, if the insurance company has claimed 
a deduction for any expenditure / allowance or as debited in theITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 31 
accounts to the profit and loss acc ount by way of provision or reserve, 
which is not admissible as per the provisions of Section 30 to 43B of 
the Income Tax Act, the same shall be liable for disallowance. The 
natural corollary to this would be that deduction s that are otherwise 
specified u/ s.30 to 43B would become allowable under the provisions 
of the Act and the same would get allowed to insurance company. 
Hence, logically if book depreciation is not allowed to the assessee , 
then the depreciation computed as per Section 32 of the Act would 
become automatically allowable to the assessee. This is irrespective of 
the fact that income tax depreciation u/s.32 is to be mandatorily 
allowed to the assessee as per Explanation -5 to Section 32 of the Act. 
In this regard , the language of the Section and  the computation 
provisions mentioned in Rule 5 of first schedule to the Income Tax Act 
applicable for insurance companies cannot be given a literal 
interpretation as it manifestly produces unjust result. Reliance in this 
regard has been rightly placed by the ld. AR on the decision of the 
Hon‟ble Supreme Court  in the case of CIT vs. J  H Gotl a reported in 156 
ITR 323 wherein the relevant portion is reproduced hereunder: - 
“46. Where the plain literal interpretation of a statutory provision 
produces a manifest ly unjust result which could never have been intended 
by the Legislature, the Court might modify the language used by the 
Legislature so as to achieve the intention of the Legislature and produce 
a rational construction. The task of interpretation of a sta tutory provision 
is an attempt to discover the intention of the Legislature from the 
language used. It is necessary to remember that language is at best an 
imperfect instrument for the expression of human intention. It is well to 
remember the warning admin istered by judge, the learned hand that one 
should not make a fortress out of dictionary but remember that statutes 
always have some purpose or object to accomplish and sympathetic and 
imaginative discovery is the surest guide to their meaning. ‖ 
 
4.2. We w ould like to make it clear that the aforesaid purposive 
interpretation of the provisions are being considered in the instant 
case only to avoid unjust and absurd results that would otherwiseITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 32 
prevail in the event of assessee not getting even statutory deduc tions / 
allowances while computing the taxable income. The pro duction of 
unjust and absurd results could never be the intention of the 
legislature and we are not inclined to make the computation provisions 
of Ru le 5 of first schedule to the Income Tax Act unworkable . Hence, 
in order to prevent that gross injustice, we are inclined to give 
purposive interpretation of the provisions instead of literal 
interpretation.  
 
4.3.  We also find that the Finance Act 2020 had addressed the very 
same anomaly  by amendi ng the Rule 5 of the first schedule to the 
Income Tax Act by inserting the proviso after Clause -C of Rule 5 to 
provide deduction of amounts previously disallowed u/s.43B in the 
year in which the same is actually paid . The Explanatory Memorandum 
to the Fina nce Bill 2020 explaining the provisions relating to direct tax 
amendments while proposing an amendment in Section 43B to 
insurance companies had stated as under: - 
 
―Section 44 of the Act provides that computation of profits and gains of 
any business of ins urance, including any such business carried on by a 
mutual insurance company or a co -operative society shall be computed 
in accordance with the rules contained in the First Schedule to the Act.  
 
Section 43B of the Act provides for allowance of certain ded uctions, 
irrespective of the previous year in which the liability to pay such sum 
was incurred by the assessee according to the method of accounting 
regularly employed by the assessee, only in the previous year in which 
such sum is actually paid.  
 
Rule 5 of the said Schedule provides for computation of profits and gains 
of other insurance business. It states that profits and gains of any 
business of insurance other than life insurance shall be taken to be the 
profit before tax and appropriations as disclos ed in the profit and loss 
account prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 or the rule made thereunder or the provisions of the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 or the regulationsITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 33 
made thereunder, subjec t to the condition that any expenditure debited to 
the profit and loss account which is not admissible under the provisions 
of sections 30 to 43B shall be added back; any gain or loss on 
realisation of investment shall be added or deducted, as the case may  be, 
if the same is not credited or debited to the profit and loss account; any 
provision for diminution in the value of investment debited to the profit 
and loss account shall be added back. Thus, there is no specific 
provision, in this rule, in the case of other insurance companies, to allow 
deduction for any payment of certain expenses specified in section 43B if 
they are paid in subsequent previous year. There is a possibility that 
such sum may not be allowed as deduction in the previous year in which 
the payment is made. This has not been the intention of the legislature.  
 
Therefore, it is proposed to insert a proviso after clause (c) of the said 
rule 5 to provide that any sum payable by the assessee which is added 
back under section 43B in accordance with clause (a) of the said rule 
shall be allowed as deduction in computing the income under the rule in 
the previous year in which such sum is actually paid.  
 
This amendment will take effect from 1st April, 2020 and will, 
accordingly, apply in relation t o the assessment year 2020 -21 and 
subsequent assessment years. ‖  
 
4.4. From the logical reading and understanding of the aforesaid 
Explanatory Memorandum of Finance Bill 2020, it could be safely 
inferred and concluded that the legislature never wanted to d eny any 
deduction or allowance that was otherwise allowable to the assessee 
under the very same provisions of Section s 30 to 43B of the Income 
Tax Act. It also impliedly mention ed that by this process, the double 
disallowance that would occur shall be avoi ded. There would be cases 
where assessee while making certain provision for certain expenses or 
provision for certain reserves would add it back voluntarily in the 
return of income even though the same is an item of legitimate 
expenditure in the P & L acco unt. When the very same expenditure is 
actually paid by the assessee in different assessment year, the same 
should be logically and legally liable for deduction / allowance to the 
assessee in the year in which such payments are made. This aloneITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 34 
would addre ss the clear intention of the legislature. Moreover these 
benefits are otherwise available to all other types of the assessee and 
there is no logical reason that an Insurance company alone should be 
deprived of the same. This would be more relevant from th e point of 
discrimination of assessee. Considering the totality of these 
observations, it could be safely concluded that the amendment 
brought in Finance Act 2020 addressing this anomaly  is merely 
curative in nature and hence has to be construed as clarifi catory 
having retrospective effect as it was brought in to avoid unintended 
consequences and to avoid discrimination with other assessees. In this 
regard , we find that the reliance has been rightly placed by the ld. AR 
on the decision of the Hon‟ble Suprem e Court in the case of Allied 
Motors (P) Ltd., vs CIT reported in 224 ITR 677 wherein it was held 
that  when a proviso is inserted to remedy unintended consequences 
and to make the section workable, a proviso which supplies an obvious 
omission in the secti on and which proviso is required to be read into 
the section to give it a reasonable interpretation, it could be read to be 
retrospective in operation, particularly to give effect to the section as a 
whole.  This direction, in our considered opinion , would make 
computation provisions mentioned in Rule 5 of the first schedule of the 
Income Tax Act workable.  In view of the above observations, we 
direct the ld. AO to grant allowance of depreciation u/s.32 of the Act 
for the year under consideration. Needless t o mention that the ld. AO 
should rework the depreciation of subsequent years accordingly due to 
change in the written  down value of the block of assets. Accordingly, 
the ground No.10 raised by the assessee is allowed.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 35 
5. The ground Nos.  5 to 9 raised by the assessee are in the same line 
of ground No.10 wherein certain deductions were claimed by the 
assessee. The same are detailed hereinbelow: - 
 
(a) Ground No.5 is seeking deduction in respect of profit on sale of 
fixed assets from the assessee‟s total income – Since we have 
already directed the ld. AO to grant depreciation as per Ground 
No.10 hereinabove u/s.32 of the Act, then consequently on sale of 
fixed assets would also have to be as per the provisions of Income 
Tax Act, hence, this ground No.5 becomes con sequential in nature.  
 
(b)  Ground No.6 is challenging the action of the ld. CIT(A) not 
excluding the reversal of expenses credited by the assessee to its 
profit and loss account which had been disallowed in the previous 
years.  
 
(c) Ground No.7 is challenging the action of the ld. CIT(A) disallowing 
the claim of expenses u/s.40(a)(ia) of the Act which was 
disallowed in the preceding previous year and on which tax had 
been deducted at source and paid to the credit of the Central 
Government in the previous year under  appeal . 
 
(d) Ground No.8 is challenging the disallowance of deduction of bonus 
and leave encashment paid during the year under appeal which 
was disallowed in earlier years u/s.43B of the Act.  
 
(e) Ground No.9 is challenging the disallowance of reversal of provis ion 
of doubtful debts which was disallowed by the assessee in earlier 
years.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 36 
 
5.1. We find that all the aforesaid items from (b) to (e) above are to be 
granted deduction and excluded from the total income of the assessee in 
order to avoid double disallowan ce. The amendment brought in Finance 
Act, 2020 also impliedly concluded that there should be no double 
disallowance. In this regard, assessee has given detailed submissions 
before the ld. CIT(A) that are enclosed in pages 217 -222 of the paper 
book filed be fore us justifying the claim of deduction. The same reasoning 
that was given by us in ground No.10 hereinabove would apply to these 
grounds also. Accordingly, the ground Nos. 6  to 9 raised by the assessee 
are allowed.  
 
6. The ground No.11 raised by the ass essee is seeking credit for tax 
deducted at source.  
 
6.1. We have heard rival submissions and perused the materials available 
on record. We find that the ld. AO had not granted the credit of additional 
tax deduced at source claimed by the assessee during t he assessment 
proceedings. Since this matter requires factual verification, we direct the 
ld. AO to verify the claim of the assessee and grant TDS credit in 
accordance with law. Accordingly, the ground No.11 raised by the 
assessee is allowed for statistica l purposes.  
 
7. The ground No.12 raised by the assessee was stated to be not pressed 
by the ld. AR at the time of hearing and accordingly, the same is hereby 
dismissed as not pressed.ITA No.1718/Mum/2020  
M/s. Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.,  
 
 37 
8. The ground No.13 is an additional ground claiming deduction for 
education cess which was also stated to be not pressed by the ld. AR at 
the time of hearing and accordingly dismissed as not pressed.  
 
9.  In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed for statistical 
purposes.  
 
 
Order pronounced  on       25/ 04/2022 by way o f proper mentioning in 
the notice board.  
        
 
 
Sd/- 
 (AMARJIT SINGH ) Sd/-                             
(M.BALAGANESH)                 
JUDICIAL MEMBER  ACCOUNTANT MEMBER  
 
Mumbai ;    Dated         25/04/2022   
KARUNA , sr.ps 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy of the Order forwarded  to  :   
                     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BY ORDER,  
 
 
                                                                                       
(Asstt.  Registrar)  
ITAT, Mumbai  
 1. The Appellant   
2. The Respondent.  
3. The CIT(A), Mumbai.  
4. CIT  
5. DR, ITAT, Mumbai  
6. Guard file.  
 
//True Copy//