1 
 BEFORE THE AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE RULINGS  
(INCOME TAX)  
 
Friday, 14th Febr uary , 2014  
 
PRESENT  
      
                       Justice  Dr.Arijit Pasayat  (Chairman)  
               Mr. T.B.C. Rozara (Member)  
 
                 
 A.A.R. Nos. 1242 of 201 2 
Name &  address of the applicant :      Trade Circle Enterprise s LLC,  
      P.O.Box No.13378 - Dubai  
UAE  
            
  Present for the applicant     : Mr. Rupesh Jain, Advocate  
       Mr. Shaily Gupta, Chartered Accountant  
        
    Present for the Department    : Mr. Rajeev P Singh, CIT -DR,( AAR ),ND  
       Mr. S  S Negi, DDIT Cir . 2(2) (IT), Delhi  
       
 
         
 O R D E R  
 
 
  Trade Circle Enterprises LLC, UAE is the applicant and the relevant facts 
stated in the application are  as under:-  
(1)  The applicant is  a company registered in UAE and is engaged in the      
    business of developing and investing in the infrastructure and real estate 
   sector.  
 
(2) The applicant intends to invest in a 100 % subsidiary company in India 
   under the prevailing FDI regulations.  
 (3)  This Indian subsidiary company of the applicant intends to setup 
 consortium by way of partnership firm under the Par tnership Act, 1932 
 with another Indian Company namely , MEP Infra Private Limited 
 (MEPPL).2 
  
(4)  This consortium (partnership firm) proposes to acquire the undertaking of 
 MEP Infra Private Limited which is engaged in the business of operating 
 and maintaining 20 road bridges in Mumbai and in consideration it 
 collects toll at five Mumbai entry points pursuant to a contract dated 19th  
 November, 2010 entered into with the Maharash tra State Road 
 Development Corporation, a Corporation (MSRDC) owned by the 
 Government of Maharashtra (‘Undertaking’).  The said undertaking 
 comprises of various bridges constructed within Mumbai and the last 
 bridge was completed on 30th September , 2006 . 
 
(5)  The operating of toll roads referred to a bove was started by MSRD C 
 from date s prior to awarding contract for operating a nd maintenance to 
 MEPPL  by the state Government of Maharashtra.  MEPPL has been 
 awarded the  said contract with effect from 19th November, 2010 for a 
 period of 16 years.   
(6)  The present Undertaking is eligible for tax deduction of 100% of its 
 profits and gains from such underta king for a period of 10 consecutive 
 assessment years out of the 20 assessment years as per provisions of 
 Section 80I A(4)(i) of Income tax Act, 1961 (‘Act’).  MSRDC and 
 MEPPL  have not claimed any income tax benefit under the said section.  
(7)  The above mentioned transaction is expected to be completed by the 
 month of December, 2011, subject to necessary approvals.  
 
2. The applicant seeks ruling from this Authority  on the following questions:-  
(i) Whether on facts and circumstances of the case, the transfer  of 
Undertaking from MEP Infra Toll Road Private  
Limited(‘MEPPL’) to the partnership firm in which the Applicant 
is considering to join as a partner through its Indian subsidiary, 
would in any manner,  affect the allowability of deduction under 
section 80IA (4)(i) to the partnership firm.  
 
(ii) Whether the newly formed partnership will be considered as a 
 consortium of companies and be eligible for deduction in respect 
 of profits and gains from undertakings or enterprises engaged in 
 infrastructure developme nt etc. which is equal to hundred percent 
 of the profits and gains derived from such business for ten 
 consecutive assessment years out of twenty years?3 
 (iii) Whether the twenty years period referred to in the proviso to 
 section 80 IA(2) of the Act, it to be reckoned from the date when  the 
 MEPPL (whose undertaking which is intended to be transferred 
 to the partnership firm ) entered into the contract with MSRD C for 
 operation and maintenance of bridges, i.e.. the year 2010-11 or  
 from the date when the Government first started the operation and 
 maintenance of the last bridge, i.e., the year 2006- 07. 
 
(iv) Without prejudice, if the date of commencement of operation of  the 
 bridges by the State Government is to be considered for the 
 purposes of determining the period of 20 years in terms of section 
 801A (2) of the Act, since there are in all 20 bridges (toll of which 
 is collected at 5 entry points) which form part of the Un dertaking 
 under contr act granted to  MEPPL  and each of them was 
 completed  at a different date b etween 1999 to 2006 and 
 operations and  maintenance of each of them was star ted 
 originally by the state government at a different date, will the 
 year of completion of last bridge be treated as the year in which 
 the  undertaking develops and begins to operate any  
 infrastructure  facility or 20 bridges will be  treated as 20 
 separate infrastructure facilities/undertakings and, therefore, 20 
 different dates/years will be considered for commencement of 
 benefit of  deduction under section 801A(2) ? 
 (v) In the event, each of the 20 bridges is considered to be an 
 independent infra structure  facility , how would the income of each 
 of the Unde rtakings be computed as the revenue is collected at 
 5(five) entry point which represents the consolidated revenue of 20 
 bridges and it is not possible to bifurcate /allocate the revenues to 
 each bridge as there is no linkage  between  the collection at e ntry 
 points and us age / utilization of ea ch bridge.  
 
(vi) Whether the Undertaking so transferred will be treated as a new 
 undertaking and will be eligible for the benefits of section 
 801A (4) as the Undertaking so transferred fulfills the conditions 
 mentioned in Section 801A(4)(i) namely;  
 
(a)  It is owned by a company registered in India or by a 
 consortium of such companies;4 
 (b)  It has entered into an agreement with the Central 
 Government  or a State Government or a local authority  or 
 any other statutory body for (i) developing or (ii) operating 
 and maintaining  or (iii) developing, operating and 
 maintaining a new infrastructure  facility; 
 
(c)  It has started or star ts operating and maintaining the 
 infrastructure facility on or after the 1st day of Apri,1995.  
 
  (vii) Whether the consideration paid towards the acquisition of toll  
   rights would be regarded as an “ intangible  asset” u/s32(1)(ii) for 
   the purpose of claiming depreciation under the Income -tax Act.  
   1961.  
 
3. The Revenue objected to admission of the application u/s 245R(2) stating that 
the questions posed before the AAR do not fall under any of the clauses of section 
254N of the Act.  It was submitt ed that the applicant is in no way involved in the 
present set of tra nsactions as described in the statement of facts and agreements  filed 
before the  AAR.  The companies involved in the transaction are Indian companies and 
any tax liability out of such transaction will arise on Indian companies or the proposed 
partnership firm which is also Indian.  Neither the non-resident applicant has entered into a ny arrangement/agreement with the Indian parties nor any inference can be 
drawn from the application that any consideration is being received by the applicant in 
the instant case.  It was argued that the application is outside the scope of the framework of the Authority for Advance Rulings and ought not  be admitted for 
adjudication.5 
 4. The learned counse l for the applicant on the other hand submitted that the 
applicant company intends to invest in a 100% subsidiary company in India under the 
prevailing FDI  regulations and the Indian subsidiary company of the applicant intends 
to set up consortium by way of partnership firm under the Partnership Act with 
another Indian company namely, MEP Infra Pvt . Limited (MEPPL) and ultimately the 
applicant company will be involved in transaction with the Indian concerns and 
therefore , there will be issue of tax liability in India.  
 
5. We have considered the rival contention of the learned counsel for the applicant 
and the Revenue and also examined the docu ments place d before us.  At the outset we 
have noticed t hat the applicant Umesh H Ashar is an individual whereas the statement 
of facts mentions the applicant a s a company registered in UAE.  When this  was 
pointed out,  the learned counsel made a statement that there w as a mistake and 
affidavit was filed from Mr. Umesh H Ashar stating that he is Managing Director of Trade Circle Enterprises LLC (Trade Circle) and in the application  filed in form 
No.34C the name of the applicant has been inadvertently mentioned as “ Umesh H 
Ashar Trade Circle Enterprises LLC ”.  It was stated that the correct name of the 
applicant is Trade Circle Enterprises LLC which is a company.   
 
6. On perusal of the questions we find that there is no mention of the applicant ’s 
name except  in question No.1 that states :6 
 “    Whether on facts and circumstances of the case, the transfer of 
 Undertaking from MEP Infra Toll Road Private Limited  
 (‘MEPPL’) to the partnership firm in which the Applicant is 
 considering to join as a partner through
  its Indian subsidiary,  
 would in any manner, affect the allowability of deduction under 
 section 80 1A(4)(i) to the partnership firm .” 
 
7. There is no transaction or proposed transaction with the Indian companies 
mentioned in the question.  At the time of  hearing the learned counsel for the applicant 
argued that the language employed in sub  clause (i ) of section 245N(a) is w ider in 
scope in contra st with the language employed in s ub- clause (ii) in as much as there is 
no specific  requirement in sub clause (i) that deter mination should relate to the tax 
liability of a non-resident.  In his argument the learned counsel referred to decision of 
the Supreme Court in the case of Doypac k System s Private Limited v/s Union of 
India: (1988 SC 782 ) and of the Delhi High Court in the case of M axopp  Investment  
Limited v/s CIT ( 347ITR272) for int erpretation of the expression “in relation to 
employed in sub clause (i) of section 245N (a) of the Act.  We do not find relevance of  
those decisions in this case.  In order to bring in the question within the scope of  
section 245N of the Act,  there has to be either a transaction undertaken or proposed 
transaction to be undertaken by the non-resident applicant.  This is not the case in the 
present application .  “Transaction ” or “proposed transaction ” are not the same as mere  
intention.  In this case the applicant intends to invest in a 100 per cent subsidiary 
company in India which in turn intends to set up a consortium  by way of partnership 
firm wi th the Indian company and the partnership firm propose to acquire the7 
 undertaking of the Indian company which is stated to be eligible for deduction u/s 
80IA of the Income -tax Act, 1961.  We are of the view that the 100 per cent 
subsidiary company has to e xist in reality and the partnership firm has to be set up in 
order to make transaction or proposed transaction of the applicant with the Indian company/subsidiary.  The question relates to proposed setting up of the subsidiary and 
the partnership firm with  the Indian company and as to whether the subsidiary or the 
partnership firm will be eligible to 100 per cent deduction u/s 80IA of the Income -tax 
Act. The ruling of this Authority in the case of Umicore Finance v/s CIT (318ITR78) 
is also not applicable in the present application.   On facts and circumstances of the 
case, we agree with the stand of Revenue  that the questions posed before us do not fall 
under the purview  of this Authority .  
 
  The application is not admitted and consequently rejected as incompetent.  
 
  
 
 
 (Arijit Pasayat)                                   (TBC Rozara ) 
                 Chairman                Member