IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, SURAT BENCH, SURAT 
BEFORE SHRI PAWAN SINGH, JM & DR. A. L. SAINI, AM 
आयकर अपील सं./ITA No.309/SRT/2022 
Ǔनधा[रण वष[/Assessment Year: (2015-16) 
(Physical Court Hearing) 
 
Valsad District Central Co-operative 
Bank Ltd., 
Azad Chowk, Halar Road, Valsad – 
396001 (Gujarat). Vs. The ACIT,  
Valsad Circle, Valsad. 
(Appellant)  (Respondent) 
èथायीलेखासं ./जीआइआरसं ./PAN/GIR No.: AAAAV0539L  
 
Assessee by Shri Akshay Modi, CA 
Respondent by Shri Vinod Kumar, Sr. DR 
Date of Hearing 08/02/2023 
Date of Pronouncement  27/02/2023 
 
आदेश / O R D E R 
PER DR. A. L. SAINI, AM:  
Captioned appeal filed by the assessee, pertaining to Assessment Year 
(AY) 2015-16, is directed against the order passed by the Learned Commissioner 
of Income Tax (Appeals), [in short “the ld. CIT”], National Faceless Appeal 
Centre (in short ‘NFAC’) which in turn arises out of an assessment order passed 
by Assessing Officer under section 144 r.w.s. 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), dated 22.12.2018. 
 
2. The grounds of appeal raised by the assessee are as follows: 
“1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned 
CIT (Appeals)-I, Surat erred in confirming the action of the ACIT, Valsad 
Circle, Valsad (for the sake brevity "The AO") in initiating the proceedings u/s 
147 of the Act and issuance of notice u/s 148 of the Act and hence, the 
assessment completed u/s 144 r.w.s. 147 of the Act making disallowance to the 
extent of Rs.89,632/- purely on change of opinion is bad in law, without 
jurisdiction, illegal and therefore, liable to be annulled in toto. 
2. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case as well in law, the learned 
CIT (Appeals) erred in confirming the order of the of the ACIT, Valsad Circle, 
Valsad making disallowance of expenditure of Rs.89,632/- being the premium 
actually paid to LIC under the Group Gratuity-cum-Life Insurance Scheme u/s 
36(l)(v) of the Act and hence, not justified.Page | 2  
 
                    
                                                                       ITA 309/SRT/2022/AY.2015-16  
                                                                Valsad Dist. Cent. Co- op. Bank Ltd.                                            
3. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, both the lower 
authorities have grievously failed to consider in the right and proper 
perspectives the claim of expenditure of Rs.89,632/- being the premium actually 
paid to LIC under the Group Gratuity-cum-Life Insurance Scheme, fully 
allowable u/s 37(1) of the Act and therefore, the disallowance of premium 
expenditure under the misconstruction and misapplication of the provisions of 
36(1)(v) of the Act is without jurisdiction, illegal bad in law and not justified. 
4. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case as well as in law, the 
learned CIT(Appeals) has passed order without considering the written 
submission filed by the assessee is without jurisdiction, perverse, invalid, 
arbitrary, bad in law and hence, liable to be stuck down. 
5. Your appellant further reserves its rights to add, alter, amend or modify any 
of the aforesaid grounds before or at the time of hearing of an appeal.” 
3. Brief facts qua the issue are that during the course of assessment 
proceedings of AY.2015-16, it was observed by Assessing Officer that the 
assessee had debited Rs.89,632/- as gratuity expenses in its profit and loss 
account. However, the assessee did not have approval of the Commissioner of 
Income Tax for its gratuity fund, expenses claimed towards gratuity fund for 
AY.2015-16 needs to be disallowed in terms of section 36(i)(v) of the Income 
Tax Act. In view of the specific provision of section 36(i)(v) of the Act found to 
be violated by the assessee. The assessee was asked to furnish party wise details 
of expenses on account of Group Gratuity Insurance premium of Rs.89,632/- 
debited to profit and loss account and its allowability in view of provision of 
section 36(1)(v) of the I.T. Act.  
 
4. In response to this the assessee vides reply dated 15.12.2018 has 
submitted before Assessing Officer, the written submission which is reproduced 
as under: 
“In respect of Group Gratuity Insurance Premium paid to LIC under the Master 
Polity for the purposes, for amount of Rs.89,632/-, receipt for payment of 
premium under the scheme, copy of cheque deposited as also the ledger of 
Group Gratuity-cum-Life Insurance premium expenses account are also 
enclosed herewith. You will appreciate the very fact that the assessee bank has 
claimed the said business expenditure on actual payment of premium valued by 
the LIC under the scheme and not the provision for gratuity and therefore, it is 
fully allowable under section 36(1)(v) or in the alternative under section 37(1) 
of the I.T. Act.” 
 
5. However, Assessing Officer rejected the contention of the assessee and 
held that as the assessee did not have approval of the commissioner of IncomePage | 3  
 
                    
                                                                       ITA 309/SRT/2022/AY.2015-16  
                                                                Valsad Dist. Cent. Co- op. Bank Ltd.                                            
Tax for its gratuity fund, expenses claimed towards gratuity fund for AY.2015-
16 needs to be disallowed in terms of 36(1)(v) of I.T. Act. Section 2(5) of the 
I.T. Act, 1961 defines “the approved gratuity fund”. Further, section 36(1)(v) of 
the I.T. Act, 1961, provides that any sum paid by the assessee as an employer by 
way of contribution towards an approved gratuity allowed as a deduction. All 
these statutory provisions refer to an “approved gratuity fund”. The approval 
referred to in the provisions is the approval of the Commissioner of Income Tax, 
which is required to be obtained in terms of the rules contained in part C of 
Fourth Schedule to the I.T. Act, 1961 which deals with ‘approved gratuity fund’. 
Rule 4(1) of Part C of Fourth Schedule to the I.T. Act, 1961 provides for an 
application being made for approval. Rule 6 provides that if a gratuity fund for 
any reasons ceases to be an approved gratuity fund, the trustees of the fund shall, 
nevertheless, remain liable to tax and gratuity paid to any employee. The 
conditions of approval are set out in Rule 3. The approval is to be granted by the 
Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, who has been vested with that power under 
rule 2(1) of Part C of Fourth Schedule. Further, the assessee’s claim of allowing 
the same under section 37 is not acceptable as when there is a specific provision 
for specific expenditure/expenses, the specific provisions would apply/prevail. 
Therefore, there is no question of provision of section 37(1) being applicable in 
this case. Since, further if the contention of the assessee that the gratuity 
deduction be allowed under section 37(1) is accepted, it would rendered the 
provisions of section 36(1)(v) of the Income Tax Act otiose. Therefore, the 
contention of the assessee is not as per law. When the specific provision of 
section 36(1)(v) of the IT Act was violated by the assessee and the assessee’s 
claim of allowing the same under section 37 is not acceptable, therefore entire 
amount of Rs.89,632/- paid towards unapproved Gratuity Fund was disallowed 
by Assessing Officer.  
 
6. Aggrieved by the order of the Assessing Officer, the assessee carried the 
matter in appeal before the ld. CIT(A), who has confirmed the action of the 
Assessing Officer. 
 
7. Aggrieved by the order of Ld. CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal before us.Page | 4  
 
                    
                                                                       ITA 309/SRT/2022/AY.2015-16  
                                                                Valsad Dist. Cent. Co- op. Bank Ltd.                                            
8. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee submits that issue under consideration is 
squarely covered by the judgment of Co-ordinate Bench of ITAT, Surat in 
assessee’s own case in ITA No.842/AHD/2015, ITA Nos. 826/AHD/2016 & 
827/AHD/2016, dated 13.05.2019, wherein it was held as follows: 
“7. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material on 
record. We find that the AO has disallowed a sum of Rs. 16,18,050 towards 
gratuity expenses being claim of the assessee on the ground that the gratuity 
scheme was not approved as per the requirement of section 36(1)(v) of the Act 
and the assessee has failed to produce necessary certificate in support of the 
same. However, it is seen that the Gratuity scheme was being managed by the 
LIC for which an agreement was entered in to between the trustees of the fund 
and LIC on 31.03.1976 as per Master Policy No. GGI/16073 (PB-22). The 
assessee has not made provision but made payment before filing of return of 
income. This claim of the assessee has been allowed in earlier years since 
inception of fund. The assessee has contended that since the payments has been 
made to LIC of India is allowable deduction as it was made as per Master 
Policy Scheme. The assessee has relied on the decision of Co-ordinate Bench of 
Vishakhapatnam in the case of District Co-Operative Central Bank v. ITO [IT 
Appeal No. 49 & 50/Vizag/2012 dated 25.01.2018 wherein after discussing 
various case laws including Co-ordinate Bench of Ahmedabad in the case 
of DCIT v. Baroda Gujarat Gramin Bank [I.T. Appeal No. 1479/Ahd/2010 dated 
6.8.2010] deduction claim was allowed on the ground that payment made to 
LIC is not a provision, but actual expenditure claimed under gratuity scheme. 
Since the assessee has claimed the expenditure same is therefore, liable to be 
allowed. We further observe that Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of the 
assessee in its order dated 05.02.2018 in SCA No. 20801 of 2017 [copy filed 
PB-l2-to 19] in para 5 observed as: 
"In such objection, it was inter-alia pointed out that the gratuity scheme was 
being managed by LIC for which, an agreement was executed between the 
trustees of the fund and LIC on 31.03.1976. These documents were produced 
during the course of original assessment proceedings. The LIC accepted the 
responsibility to manage the fund only after verifying the Commissioner of 
Income-Tax duly approved that scheme. After examining of such aspects, the 
petitioners claim for deduction was accepted. It was also pointed out that this is 
not the first year in which, such claim was made and accepted. The bank has 
been paying premium under the said scheme year after year since the year 
1976." 
Thus, this observation of the Hon'ble High Court means that the plea of the 
assessee that gratuity fund was approved by the Commissioner of Income tax. 
However, since the scheme was framed back in 1976 itself, the assessee has 
does not have the order so passed by the Commissioner of Income-Tax. 
Accordingly, the Hon'ble High Court has quashed the reopening of assessment 
as there was no failure on the part of the assessee. We find that the Department 
has been allowing such claim year after year and in some years, the assessment 
has been made under scrutiny. It is just because the assessee is not able to 
prove the copy of the approval, the claim has been denied to the assessee. We 
are of the view that this claim of the assessee is allowable on the plea of 
consistency. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of RadhasaomiPage | 5  
 
                    
                                                                       ITA 309/SRT/2022/AY.2015-16  
                                                                Valsad Dist. Cent. Co- op. Bank Ltd.                                            
Satsang (supra) held that the assessments are quasi-judicial and each 
assessment year being a unit, what is decided in one year may not apply in the 
following year, but where a fundamental aspect permeating through the 
different A.Y.s has been found as a fact one way or the other and the parties 
have allowed that position to be sustained by not challenging the order, it would 
not be at all appropriate to allow the position to be changed in a subsequent 
year. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Textool Co. Ltd. (supra) 
observed as 
"7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue has submitted before 
us that the provisions of Section 36(1)(v) of the Act have to be construed strictly 
and for claiming deduction, conditions laid down in Section 36(1)(v) of the Act 
must be fulfilled. It is urged that since during the relevant previous year the 
contribution by the assessee towards the gratuity fund was not in an approved 
gratuity fund the High Court was not justified in affirming the view taken by the 
Commissioner as also by the Tribunal while answering in favour of the 
assessee. However, on a query by us as to whether the contribution made by the 
assessee in the approved gratuity fund credited by the LIC for the employees of 
the assessee and ultimately the entire amount deposited with the LIC came back 
to the fund created by the assessee for the benefit of its employees and approved 
by the Commissioner w.e.f. 25th February, 1983, or not, learned counsel is not 
in a position to make a categorical statement in that behalf. 
8. Having considered the matter in the light of the background facts, we are of 
the opinion that there is no merit in the appeal. True that a fiscal statute is to be 
construed strictly and nothing should be added or subtracted to the language 
employed in the Section, yet a strict construction of a provision does not rule 
out the application of the principles of reasonable construction to give effect to 
the purpose and intention of any particular provision of the Act. See Shree 
Sajjan Mills Ltd. v. CIT [1985] 156 ITR 585/23 Taxman 37 (SC). From a bare 
reading of Section 36(1)(v) of the Act, it is manifest that the real intention 
behind the provision is that the employer should not have any control over the 
funds of the irrevocable trust created exclusively for the benefit of the 
employees. In the instant case, it is evident from the findings recorded by the 
Commissioner and affirmed by the Tribunal that the assessee had absolutely no 
control over the fund created by the LIC for the benefit of the employees of the 
assessee and further all the contribution made by the assessee the said fund 
ultimately came back to the Textool Employees Gratuity Fund, approved by the 
Commissioner with effect from the following previous year. Thus, the conditions 
stipulated in Section 36(1)(v) of the Act were satisfied. Having regard to the 
facts found by the Commissioner and affirmed by the Tribunal, no fault can be 
found with the opinion expressed by the High Court, warranting our 
interference. 
8. Since in the present case, the facts as identical as the employer bank does not 
have any control over the funds of the irrevocable trust created exclusively for 
the benefit of the employees and that the assessee had absolutely no control 
over the fund created by the LIC for the benefit of the employees of the assessee 
and further all the contribution made by the assessee in the said fund ultimately 
came back to the Bank Employees Gratuity Fund. The assessee has also 
obtained the policy in favour of the bank. Therefore, the facts of the case of the 
assessee are squarely covered by the above decisions cited (supra). Therefore, 
respectfully following the ratio laid down by various High Court as well asPage | 6  
 
                    
                                                                       ITA 309/SRT/2022/AY.2015-16  
                                                                Valsad Dist. Cent. Co- op. Bank Ltd.                                            
Hon'ble Supreme Court and Co-ordinate Bench as discussed above, we hold 
that the assessee is entitled for deduction for payment of gratuity scheme to LIC 
accordingly, we allow this ground No. 3 of appeal of the assessee.” 
9. On the other hand, the Ld. DR for the Revenue has primarily reiterated 
the stand taken by the Assessing Officer, which we have already noted in our 
earlier para and is not being repeated for the sake of brevity. 
10. We have heard both the parties and perused the material available on 
record. We note that assessee is making payment to the LIC Department in the 
gratuity scheme which was approved earlier by Commissioner of Income Tax. 
However, the assessee has not produced the necessary certificate before the 
lower authorities as it would not available with him, therefore, deduction was 
denied. We note that the said deduction has been claiming by assessee since a 
long, therefore by following the principle of consistency and considering the 
facts and circumstances of the case, deduction should be allowed to the assessee. 
Therefore, we direct the Assessing Officer to allow deduction of Rs.89,632/-. 
 
11. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. 
 
  Order pronounced on 27/02/2023 by placing the result on the Notice 
Board.  
 
               Sd/-                                                                             Sd/- 
   (PAWAN SINGH)                                                       (Dr. A.L. SAINI) 
JUDICIAL MEMBER             ACCOUNTANT MEMBER 
lwjr /Surat  
Ǒदनांक/ Date: 27/02/2023  
SAMANTA  
Copy of the Order forwarded  to 
1. The Assessee 
2. The Respondent 
3. The CIT(A) 
4. CIT 
5. DR/AR, ITAT, Surat 
6. Guard File 
      
By Order 
 
// TRUE COPY // 
Assistant Registrar/Sr. PS/PS 
ITAT, Surat